
  A Guided Tour Of Borderlands 2 Concept Art






Rather than just offer our readers a gallery of Borderlands
2 concept art, we're taking the opportunity to share some of our insights and
impressions of what we've seen of the game so far. You can click on
any image below to see a larger size version of the art.

The Bandit brand is a new weapons manufacturer being added
to Borderlands 2. Gearbox has said that a big focus for the team this time
around is to make each manufacturer look and feel unique, to the point that you'll
know who made a gun just by looking at it. This shouldn't be hard with Bandit
guns, as they are put together from the random scrap found throughout Pandora.
The concept art for this particular Bandit SMG also hints at
the unique decals that Gearbox can apply to guns, giving them more
individuality. Although it might be hard to tell with Bandit weapons, the look
of a gun also conveys its general value, with less powerful guns looking dingy,
and rarer weapons sporting a shiny polish.

This image of a new Tediore gun doesn't tell us a whole lot
about what's in store for the manufacturer, but luckily Gearbox did.
Tediore guns are so inexpensive in Borderlands 2 that the players throw them
away instead of reloading them (a handheld digistruct gadget will replace it
with a new clone of the gun containing a fresh clip). As we revealed in our
cover story, a discarded Tediore gun will blow up on the battlefield similar to
a grenade, and the more ammo you leave in the gun, the bigger the explosion
it will cause.
This already looked like a fun mechanic when Gearbox showed
it to us in the demo, and it will serve as an interesting perk for players who use
Tediore weapons. They also made me wonder if you can find Tediore weapons that
regenerate ammo like in the first game, or a class mod that allows for
regenerating ammo. Would this allow you to constantly spawn and throw out an
endless supply of explosive Tediore guns? We don't know for sure, but in a more
general conversation the Gearbox team told us they are willing to let
imbalanced weapons exist in the game if it makes it more fun to play, so it's a possibility we wouldn't rule out.

Here is a concept sketch of Pandora. I don't think it's an
actual location in the new game, but rather it was created to give an idea of
the variety the team is aiming to include this time around. Gearbox fully
acknowledges the complaints players had about the world in the original game,
primarily that it was one giant desert with little variation in color palette. The
areas we saw, which included a snowy tundra and green fields, already exhibited
a promising amount of variety. These new environments seem like a perfect fit
for Borderlands' vibrant art style, which wasn't really able to pop with the
brown color palette of the first game.

Here's a fun tidbit: Salvador's character class wasn't even
named yet when we went on the cover trip. Gearbox had referred to the new class
by a number of names, including Merc and Berzerker, during the demo and
interviews, before finally settling on the name Gunzerker. Despite the early
uncertainty over the class name, Gearbox knew exactly what playing as the Gunzerker
would entail, thanks to his dual-wielding ability.
Of the four characters in the original Borderlands, I never
really got into Brick, because I didn't think that punching enemies would be
that fun (though I'm sure Jeff Cork would disagree with me on that one). That
said, Salvador will be a hard character to pass up, and I hope his dual-wielding
ability is a sign that the other character classes will have awesome active
abilities as well.
Up next: The new enemies of Borderlands 2...

Handsome Jack is the new villain in Borderlands 2, and
although we didn't get a glimpse of him in the game, the character art is
revealing. It appears that Handsome Jack is wearing a mask of some kind, which
has us intrigued to find out what's underneath it (our guess: it's not
handsome).
Aside from his aesthetics, taking down Handsome Jack should
provide a tangible goal throughout the game. In our recent
video interview, Randy Pitchford stated that the Borderlands team learned a
valuable lesson from the disappointing conclusion of the first game (i.e.
players not getting any payoff for opening the vault), so hopefully besting
your foe will be a more rewarding experience this time around.

The nomad is a new class of bandit in Borderlands 2. In the
cover story, we briefly discussed a variant of the enemy called the nomad
torturer, who has a psycho midget strapped to the front of his shield. Shooting
the chains off of the shield will free the psycho, who will attack the nomad
alongside you. It is an interesting gameplay twist that should come in handy
when you're playing alone and need a distraction to allow you to flank the
nomad.
Beyond that example, we also saw one of the normal nomads in
the demo, and they are appropriately imposing. The nomads are slower than most
bandits, and really sell a sense of girth as they stomp around the battlefield.
The new mo-cap studio Gearbox built allows for much subtler animations, which
were readily apparent with the new enemy class. The nomads who sport full body
shields will be particularly difficult to take down, but I guess that's what
grenades are for.

The robot enemies Gearbox revealed to us showcased some of
the most impressive AI improvements we saw during the cover trip. Many of these
enemies feature jetpacks, which allow them to fly onto ledges and crates in
the environment -- a great improvement over the enemies of the first game, who couldn't interact with their surroundings in any significant way. 
Gearbox showed us several types of Handsome Jack's
mechanical henchmen, including a suicide bomber robot called the EXP loader (or
"exploder"). These robots would try to ambush the player and detonate when they
got close enough. The player is capable of shooting their limbs off -- another cool
addition to Borderlands 2's engine -- but even without legs the enemy will still
crawl towards the player, in a style evocative of the ending of the first Terminator. Gearbox has also improved
the path-finding of enemies, so don't expect your foes to  always run straight
towards you -- EXP loaders snuck up on the player more than once during the
demo.
Our cover story also outlined a robot enemy type capable of
deflecting incoming fire back at the player and healing its mechanical allies. The
best part is that these behaviors aren't pre-scripted, but decided upon in real-time
by the AI as the enemies communicate with each other. Borderlands 2's zany
world and tone give Gearbox a lot of freedom in dreaming up creative gameplay
variations like these, and we can't wait to see what else the team has up its
sleeve.
Want to know more
about Borderlands 2? Next week we'll be inviting you to ask us questions for an
upcoming special edition podcast on the game. In the meantime, check out the
Borderlands 2 hub for more exclusive features.

