
                                          Battlefield: Hardline
                  				 Review


  Waging A War On Two Fronts




Reviewed on PlayStation 4

Also on
Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Publisher
Electronic Arts

Developer
Visceral Games

Release

March 17, 2015

Rating
Mature

In 2013, EA and DICE learned the dangers of going to war
with the army you have. The half-baked launch of Battlefield 4 and the myriad
technical problems that followed consumed DICE's full attention, leaving
Visceral to fill the void with a new, unnumbered entry in the series. Hardline
branches off the tried-and-true Battlefield formula with the kind of different
ideas that you might expect a new developer to bring to the plate. However, some
things about war never change: Like other recent entries, the single-player
campaign falls flat while the multiplayer shines.
Despite Visceral's best attempts to tell a good story,
Hardline's single-player campaign is a mess. The military shooter's transition
to a cops-and-robbers theme has shifted the gameplay focus from open warfare to
sneaking up on and arresting people; stealth sequences make up the majority of
the campaign, and despite taking obvious cues from the Far Cry series, they
fail to deliver the same highs or tactical variety. Shootouts are still
frequent, but your limited arsenal (you can only have one firearm and a handgun
at a time) and the superhuman accuracy of your enemies make them more
frustrating than exciting. The driving sequences are so slow, dumbed down, and
scripted that they almost feel like on-rail segments. Aside from an explosive
standoff at an abandoned airstrip, most of the set-piece moments are
forgettable. 

The story of wronged-cop-turned-renegade Nicholas Mendoza
starts rough and ends with a facepalm-worthy final revelation. Downtime abounds
as characters frequently and clumsily reflect on their own backstories, and a
number of nonsensical plot twists undermine the personalities and motives of
most of the cast. Everyone ends up being bad, but unlike The Wire – where flawed characters get mired down in shades of grey
– the cast of Hardline constantly contradicts themselves with sociopathic
behavior. If Hardline was only its single-player campaign, it would be one of
the biggest flops of the year.
Thankfully, Hardline isn't just a solo cop drama gone wrong,
and the heart of the franchise beats on – albeit at a different tempo.
Hardline's multiplayer scales down the maps and vehicular combat for a more
condensed and faster-paced experience that's still worthy of the Battlefield
name.

Even Hardline's biggest maps, like the desert town of Dust
Bowl and the industrial depots of Derailed, pale in comparison to the sprawling
warzones of previous Battlefield games, but each one still serves up plenty of
interesting and dynamic locations to fight over. The shift to mostly transport
vehicles (tanks and jets are MIA) also limits the scale of combat, but I
appreciate the focus on infantry, which is what most players spend their time
on anyway.
Some diehard fans will dismiss Hardline as the further COD-ification
of Battlefield, but the gunplay isn't any twitchier than previous iterations. The
smaller maps simply mean you have less downtime before getting into the action.
This can make it harder to get your bearings (especially when spawning on a
squad member), but the players who come out on top are still the ones who
understand the pros and cons of their chosen weapon, make smart use of their
items, and coordinate with their teammates.

The downsized maps mean that smaller player counts are
better; 32-player Conquest delivers the thrills you know and love about the
timeless mode, while the 64-player matches can devolve into total chaos.
Thankfully, most of Hardline's new modes are geared toward smaller player
counts. Hotwire's mobile take on Conquest delivers plenty of thrills, while
Heist and Blood Money both offer interesting twists on capture the flag – and you
won't think twice about them all capping out at 32 players. Crosshair and
Rescue evolve the one-life, five-on-five formula of Battlefield 4's Defuse
mode, and are entertaining diversions as well.   
Visceral also changed up player progression with a new cash-based
system, and after a week of multiplayer, I don't think I can ever go back to a
linear unlocking scheme. Buying the guns and items you actually want with the
money you earn from matches just makes sense, and eliminates the annoyance of
grinding XP to get past an unlock you know you're never going to use. Items
that aren't class-specific are universal unlocks, so you're not starting from
scratch when you switch roles. At the same time, weapon attachments and some
special firearms do have requirements before you can purchase them, so you
can't just buy the best gear possible from the get-go. The ability to save
multiple loadouts for each class is an obvious yet very welcome addition to the
game as well.

Perhaps the best praise I can heap on Hardline is for what
nowadays constitutes a miraculously smooth launch; aside from a single isolated
DDoS attack on Xbox One, the servers have been rock solid since release day,
and the server browser has offered up endless lists of near-full matches to
join. I have yet to be disconnected from a single match, and lag has been
almost nonexistent as well. I'd like to see a few more options for getting
together and playing with friends, but squads are functional and performed
flawlessly during my playtime, suggesting EA learned its lessons from
Battlefield 4's failures. It's a commendable and necessary achievement for the
future of the franchise.
Some fans of the series have been quick to declare that Hardline
isn't a "true" Battlefield game due to the changes it presents. In truth, I
sometimes miss the larger scale, slower pace, and heavy ordnance (not to mention the
old killcam) of Battlefield 4's multiplayer, but they don't have to be mutually
exclusive. Both experiences are appealing in their own way, and I don't plan on
taking Hardline out of my rotation anytime soon. Just do yourself a favor and
skip the single-player campaign.
Sorry, this video is not available

8

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptTake Battlefield off the front lines for a faster and more compact cops-and-robbers excursion
GraphicsDespite using DICE's Frostbite 3 engine, Visceral can't achieve the same visual fidelity as the series' creators. That said, the environments and characters still look good
SoundThe voice acting is solid and the sound effects provide the same aural thrills players expect from the series
PlayabilityHardline uses a virtually identical control scheme to Battlefield 4 and handles just as well. You'll probably still crash the helicopters, though
EntertainmentSkip the single-player campaign and jump straight into the refined multiplayer
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Battlefield: Hardline

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

March 17, 2015

Purchase
More Info

