
  Meet Battleborn's Thorn, Montana, & Reyna






This week we're taking a look at just a few of the unique
playable characters in Gearbox's new cooperative and competitive shooter,
Battleborn. On Monday, we revealed the newcomer-friendly space marine, Oscar
Mike; the poison-kunai wielding mushroom healer, Miko; and the floating,
telekinetic swordswoman, Phoebe. Today we've got three more characters for you
to learn about, and they're just as eclectic as the last bunch. Thorn is a slim
and agile elf-like warrior who's deadly with a bow; Montana is a mountainous, Gatling-gun-wielding
soldier with a zeal for battle; and Reyna is a tough rogue commander who sports
some powerful support abilities. Read on to learn about each character's unique
weapons and abilities, and for more of our hands-on impressions of the game.
Click on the image for a larger version
Name: ThornFaction: EldridThorn's tall, thin frame makes her the most agile playable
character we saw during our visit to Gearbox. The elf-like warrior was one of
the first Eldrid settlers to land on Ekkunar, Solus' most hospitable planet,
and she has thus lived most of her life beyond her faction's control. Thorn
frequently clashes with the Eldrid's passive adoration of nature and is more
than willing to defend her new home world – luckily, she packs a number of
deadly abilities to help with her cause. Thorn can also jump much higher than
other characters, but her speed and agility come at a cost; unlike the other
characters we saw, Thorn doesn't have a shield.
Primary Weapon: BowThorn can't fire as quickly as her gun-toting colleagues,
but her arrows deal a punishing amount of damage. Players draw back her bow by
pressing in the right trigger; releasing the button fires the arrow, but you
can also charge the projectile for greater damage the longer you hold in the
button. Holding the left trigger will zoom in slightly, making it easier to target distant enemies – though you'll still have to correct for speed and gravity.
Abilities:
Volley – Thorn's
Volley ability simultaneously unleashes five arrows in a horizontal spread, all of
which deal extra damage. This can come in handy if you're having trouble
hitting a foe or have the opportunity to shoot multiple enemies at a time. However,
Volley is even more useful in close quarters. A point-blank shot will land all of
the arrows on a single target, which can be fatal depending on the enemy and
your upgrade choices; Thorn can add an additional four arrows over the course
of leveling up.
Blight – What
good would an elf-like creature be without at least a few magic powers?
Activating Blight creates a mystical symbol on the ground that damages enemies
and slows down their rate of movement, giving Thorn time to run away or charge
up another arrow.
Dark Curse – Thorn's
passive ability gives her arrows dark energy that causes extra damage to
enemies. It also curses them, which factors into her ultimate ability.
Ultimate Ability:
Apex Predator – By
far Thorn's coolest ability, Apex Predator summons a scalewolf, a ghostly beast
that mauls the targeted enemy. Thorn can increase the duration of the attack by
cursing the enemy first with her arrows.
Hands-on Impressions:Thorn was the second character I played as, and I had more
difficulty taking down foes in head-to-head encounters than I did playing as
Oscar Mike. However, I instantly fell in love with how fast and nimble she is; I
could easily outrun my foes and jump to high ledges that other characters
couldn't reach. Thorn is more vulnerable than other characters in part because
she lacks a shield. However, about halfway through the match, I transitioned
from prey to predator, thanks to Thorn's upgrades. I still had to choose my
targets wisely and avoid big shootouts, but I was more than happy to stalk my
enemies from the trees, thump them with a volley of high-damage arrows, and
then disappear back into the wilderness. I definitely plan to spend more time
playing as Thorn when Battleborn comes out.
Coming Up Next: A
soldier that's as big as the state he's named after...
Click on the image for a larger version
Name: MontanaFaction: PeacekeepersDon't let Montana's imposing frame fool you. The gigantic trooper
is the most cheerful character in Battleborn, mainly because he gets to do what
he loves – shoot people with his giant Gatling gun. Gearbox describes Montana
as a bleeding heart who always has some encouraging words for his teammates. Thanks
to his massive size, Montana is an easy target to focus on in battle, but his
tiny cranium (which he's rather sensitive about) makes landing headshots
difficult. Montana moves at a sluggish pace, but can soak up more than his
share of damage before dying.
Primary Weapon:
Gatling GunA guy Montana's size needs an appropriately large weapon,
and his powerful Gatling gun lives up to expectations. It also functions
exactly as you'd imagine; you fire by holding in the right trigger, and can
spin up the barrel in advance by holding in the left trigger. Montana's gun will
overheat if you shoot continuously for too long, though several of his
augmentations are built around this fluctuating temperature level.
Abilities:
Lumberjack Dash – Montana's
slow movement speed makes it difficult to sneak up on enemies, but his
Lumberjack Dash mitigates the problem. The speedy attack causes Montana to race
forward in a straight line, injuring enemies and knocking them back.
Hailstorm – Another
option for dealing with speedier foes, activating Hailstorm loads an alternate
ammunition into Montana's gun that slows down any enemies he shoots with it.
Hailstorm also slows down the time it takes for Montana's firearm to overheat.
Mo Heat, Mo Damage – Montana's
passive ability increases the amount of damage he deals when the barrel of his
Gatling gun heats up. Two of his level upgrades – Hot Blooded and Cold Blooded
– can also grant him health regeneration based on the temperature of the
barrel, giving players a number of strategic options for how they approach the
character and which abilities they favor.
Ultimate Ability:
Mansformation – Montana's
absurd ultimate ability causes him to launch across the map at a target, knocking
back and injuring enemies caught in the wake of the impact. Mansformation also
causes Montana's skin to turn metallic, temporarily reducing the amount of
damage he takes. Amusingly, players designate their Mansformation target by
using the Kids in the Hall head-crushing
gesture.

Hands-on Impressions:When I first started playing as Montana, I was turned off by how slow he
moved; it seemed like I was always arriving late to the party as my teammates
clashed with the opposing team, and characters like Thorn and Rath were capable
of running circles around me. Instead, I focused my attention on the other
team's A.I.-controlled minions, which were easy to take down with the continual
spray of Montana's Gatling gun.
As with Thorn, my experience playing as Montana changed
around mid-match after I leveled up a bunch of times. The brute's Lumberjack
Dash and Mansformation abilities both allowed me to literally thrust myself
into the middle of firefights, and the myriad upgrades I had chosen increased my
damage and health to absurd heights. Things became especially frenzied when I teamed
up with a friendly Miko, who provided me with a steady stream of healing buffs
as I smashed, stunned, and shot up our enemies. I don't normally enjoy playing
tank characters, but Montana allowed me to approach the role as more of a
wildcard than the team's leading damage dealer, which made the character more
enjoyable for me.
Coming Up Next: We
take a look at Reyna, the gadget-oriented commander leading up the Rogues
faction...
Click on the image for a larger version
Name: ReynaFaction: The RoguesReyna is as close as the Rogues faction gets to having an
official commander, and she plays a similar role on the battlefield. Her
Command Glove gives her the ability to buff teammates and debuff enemies,
making her a more tactics-driven option for players. Don't worry, though –
she's still packing heat.
Primary Weapon:
PistolReyna's offensive abilities are split between her pistol and
Command Glove. Players fire her handgun with the right trigger, which predictably
deals physical damage, while pressing the left trigger unleashes a slower
projectile from her Command Glove that depletes an enemy's shields.
Abilities:
Overwatch – This
support-focused ability allows Reyna to emit a charge from her Command Glove
that automatically targets a nearby teammate and provides them with an
overshield. This is especially useful for characters who have smaller shields,
or no shields at all, like Thorn.
Priority Target – Similar
to Overwatch, Priority Target sends out a charge from Reyna's glove, only this
one seeks out an enemy. Once hit, a percentage of all the damage dealt to that
foe will bypass their shield for a short period of time, regardless of whether
Reyna or another teammate is doling out the pain. As you can probably surmise,
this ability would be wasted on a character like Thorn.
Rally The Troops – Reyna's
passive ability increases her movement speed for every shot she lands on an
enemy with her pistol. This effect is stackable and also buffs nearby teammates,
giving them an incentive to stick close to their commander.
Ultimate Ability:
Nick Of Time – Reyna's
abilities and upgrades revolve around helping out her fellow teammates, and
Nick of Time ensures she's always in the right place at the right time. The
ultimate ability allows her to instantly warp to any ally's location. In
addition to supporting a teammate in need, Nick of Time also gives Reyna an
exit strategy should she run into trouble of her own.
Impressions: Reyna
wasn't playable during our hands-on time with Battleborn, so we don't know how
she compares to the other characters. That said, our time with Miko convinced
us that even support-focused characters can effectively slay the opposing
team's A.I.-controlled minions while helping out their teammates. We're
guessing Reyna won't be an exception.
Come back on Friday to
learn about three more of Battleborn's playable characters, or check out our
previous reveals of Oscar Mike, Miko, & Phoebe. For our full month of bonus
coverage, click on the banner below to visit the Battleborn hub.

