
  Dissecting The Elements And Influences Of Battleborn






In 2009, Gearbox's hit Borderlands set itself apart from
other action games by combining the fast-paced combat of first-person shooters,
the varied skills and progression of RPGs, and the endless loot of dungeon
crawlers into a new and unique experience. For Battleborn, the developer is
once again blending ideas and elements of a number of genres. We break down the
core components that simultaneously make Battleborn feel familiar and unique.

Team-based
Competitive MatchesWhat It's Like: Ever
since the inception of team deathmatch, first-person shooters have been mixing
cooperative and competitive play. Battleborn's five-player team size encourages
and rewards groups who play together as a tight-knit squad, similar to shooter
series like Battlefield and Rainbow Six, as well as the multiplayer offerings
of the Left 4 Dead series. Battleborn's Incursion mode, which
we played during our visit to Gearbox, was structured similarly to MOBAs like
League of Legends and Dota 2, tasking players with taking down the opposing
team's base and a pair of A.I.-controlled mechs in between.
Why It's Different: While
MOBAs may be the easiest comparison point for the structure of Incursion mode, Battleborn
plays like a shooter through and through. The matches we played had more of a
tug-of-war feel than most competitive shooters, with both the scores (earned
from killing players, NPCs, and taking down the opposing team's massive spider
mechs) and map territory constantly oscillating between the two teams. The smaller
player count also makes matches feel more intimate than most shooters, while the
inclusion of NPCs (which we'll discuss later) ensures there isn't much
downtime.

A Massive Roster Of Playable
CharactersWhat It's Like: Gearbox
likened the game's stable of playable characters to the fighting-game genre,
and the comparison is apt; each hero not only sports his or her own unique
abilities, but the wildly different themes and aesthetics of Battleborn's gang
of misfits reminded us more of a Marvel vs. Capcom or Mortal Kombat than a
shooter. MOBAs like League of Legends and Dota 2 also have giant rosters of
disparate and unique characters, making it another obvious comparison point.
Why It's Different: Many
shooters like Battlefield and Team Fortress 2 feature different classes with
unique abilities, but they pale in comparison to Battleborn's extreme sense of
variety. The closest comparison would be Evolve, but unlike the
hunters in Turtle Rock's shooter, the characters in Battleborn aren't just
limited to guns; melee-focused characters like Rath
and Phoebe
change up the feel of battles and team tactics even further. I played as five
of Battleborn's characters, and each felt satisfyingly different – Thorn
in particular felt like she was from a completely different kind of
first-person game, but still somehow meshes with Battleborn's world and
gameplay. I'm looking forward to seeing some of the wilder characters like Phoebe
and Caldarius in action, but on the whole, Battleborn's stable of unique heroes
is what distinguishes the game most from other shooters.
Coming Up Next: We break down Battleborn's leveling system and A.I.-controlled combatants...

Helix Leveling SystemWhat It's Like: Battleborn
features a rapid leveling system that resets after every match. This style of
session-based leveling is another hallmark of the MOBA genre, and allows everyone
to start on an even playing field. In the shooter genre, Counter-Strike's money
system played a similar role, allowing players to purchase new weapons and
items between rounds with cash earned from that match. However, Evolve's monsters
are a more apt comparison to Battleborn's characters, as they also level up
during the course of a single match, unlocking new skills and abilities as they
progress. 
Why It's Different: Most
shooters feature lengthy progression paths that award the best items and
weapons to those who have been playing the longest. In comparison, Battleborn's
leveling system feels more accessible and fast-paced; in the matches we played,
I rarely went more than a few minutes without leveling up and unlocking a new
bonus, which provided a continual and satisfying sense of progression.
Battleborn's leveling is also more streamlined than other games; each level of
the upgrade helix offers players a choice of two augmentations, selected with
either the left or right trigger. This either-or structure seemed limiting at
first, but each character I played as felt markedly different by the end of
each match, which has me eager to experiment with different builds.

A.I.-Controlled Characters
In MultiplayerWhat It's Like: From
MMOs to strategy games to shooters, many genres have incorporated
A.I.-controlled characters into their multiplayer offerings. On the shooter
front, Star Wars: Battlefront and Titanfall both fill out the ranks of their
respective warring factions with autonomous soldiers, while Left 4 Dead's A.I.
zombies give the series' multiplayer modes a distinctive style. The creep-like
minions and massive spider mechs of Battleborn's Incursion mode once again call
to mind games like League of Legends and Dota 2, albeit with some unique twists
on the MOBA genre's structure.
Why It's Different: Battleborn's
A.I.-controlled minions give the five-versus-five matches an added layer
of depth and ensure every player can contribute to their team – even if they
suck at competitive multiplayer. Minions aren't difficult to take down, but can
be dangerous to your hero in packs, and are vital for destroying the opposing
team's heavily shielded spider mechs. These giant robots fill the same role as
towers and turrets in Dota 2 and League of Legends respectively, but in
practice they just feel like massive, overpowered enemy bosses that you need to
blow up before assaulting the other team's base. They can also move around
their respective area on the map, making them more lively (and deadly) targets.
The A.I.-controlled characters in Battleborn help facilitate leveling up your
character without detracting from the player-versus-player match-ups that are at
the heart of the game's competitive experience.
Learn more about
Battleborn's playable heroes by checking out our week of character profiles,
located here,
here,
and here.
For more on the game, visit our Battleborn hub by clicking the banner below.

