
  February Cover Revealed – Evolve






Few independent studios sport the multiplayer pedigree of
Turtle Rock Studios. After years of working on Valve's Counter-Strike series,
the California-based developer created Left 4 Dead, a post-apocalyptic shooter
that redefined cooperative gaming and landed the number-one spot on Game
Informer's Top 30 Co-op Games of All Time list. Now the studio is combining its
competitive and cooperative design expertise for a new, next-gen only IP: Evolve. Backed by publisher 2K Games, which paid a whopping $10.8 million for the IP in last year's THQ auction, Turtle Rock is taking full advantage of gamers' powerful new systems.
The sci-fi multiplayer-focused shooter pits a four-player crew of alien hunters
against a separate player-controlled monster that grows larger and more powerful
over the course of matches (for more on the core gameplay, check out our video feature: What Is Evolve?). Each hunter features its own unique items and abilities, and while the monster may be outnumbered, its size and an assortment of devastating attacks make it a more than formidable foe. Like Turtle Rock's previous titles, Evolve is being built with variety and replayabilty in mind; the result is a novel mix of cooperative and competitive multiplayer elements that's unlike anything we've played before. Our exclusive hands-on time with the
game's four-versus-one hunt mode left us with plenty to be excited about, and you can get all the details in this month's issue.
Our 12-page look at Evolve reveals the first hunters,
monster (a hulking creature named Goliath), and unique equipment players will get their hands on when the game
releases on PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 this fall. We also have a wealth of exclusive screens and hands-on impressions
you won't want to miss. Check out the cover image below for your first
hint at what's to come.  

In addition to our first look at Evolve, the February issue
features Game Informer's annual Top 50 Games of the Year awards (impatient gamers can check out the list of award winners before getting the full scoop in the issue). From the biggest triple-A action titles to the smallest indie experiences, the Top 50 celebrates the
best games that 2013 had to offer. We also survey the changing landscape of MMOs in
this month's Massive, reflect on our favorite 25 Wii games of all time, and take
an inside look at the fall of the LucasArts empire. In this month's previews,
we catch up with Ubisoft to see what's going on with The Division, share the latest details about Keiji Inafune's Mighty No. 9, take Diablo III's Reaper of Souls expansion for a
test drive, and check out Hello Games' promising new sci-fi exploration
game, No Man's Sky.
To top it all off, we have hands-on impressions of Sega and Creative Assembly's Alien: Isolation. Find out how we fared against the series' infamous xenomorph in this promising new survival horror title that may finally deliver the tense cat-and-mouse experience Alien fans have been waiting for.
Print subscribers can watch for their issues to arrive in
the coming days. If you subscribe digitally, your February issue will be
available later today on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through
third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print
subscription to digital, click here, or to
create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here. 
In addition to our cover story on Evolve, readers can expect
a whole month of bonus online coverage here at gameinformer.com, including an inside
look at Turtle Rock Studios, video interviews with studio heads Chris Ashton
and Phil Robb, and tons more details about the characters and creation of the
game. Make sure you don't miss any of this month's features by visiting and
bookmarking our Evolve coverage hub – check it out by clicking on the banner
below.

For a sneak peek at what to expect in our month of exclusive
features, check out our Evolve coverage trailer below or on YouTube.
Sorry, this video is not available
You can also follow our Evolve updates and other stories by
following Game Informer on Twitter, Google+,
and Facebook.
Enjoy the issue!

