LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4


  Hands-On With Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4




Traveller's Tales games have had a lot of success taking
blockbuster movie franchises like Star
Wars and Indiana Jones and
turning them into family-friendly Lego games, so it wasn't that much of a
surprise when the developer announced its latest endeavor, Lego Harry Potter:
Years 1-4. The game draws its inspiration from the first four books of the
popular fantasy series, and looks to put the Lego franchise back on track after
the disappointing Lego Indiana Jones 2. Will it succeed? We played the first
few hours of the boy wizard's block-filled adventure, and have the scoop on
what Potter fans can expect. 
The Story:
Like previous Lego titles, Harry Potter forgoes character dialogue in favor of funny
pantomime, so you'll have to rely on your memory of the books or movies to fill
in the much of the story's plot. The cutscenes I saw were like watching
animated CliffsNotes for the series, but TT Games' slapstick approach to
storytelling keeps things moving and gets you back into the game before
confusion or boredom can set in. That said, there's plenty of fan service for
wannabe wizards, and all of your favorite characters are in the game, in playable
form to boot. In the first few hours I traded off between Harry, Hagrid, Hermione,
and Ron. Though they all shared some spells in common, they each had some
unique characteristics as well: Hagrid's larger frame means he can pull heavy
objects that other characters can't. True to the books, Hermione is horrible at
flying, and Ron always looks slightly afraid when casting spells, knowing full
well that he's probably going to screw things up. TT is claiming there
will be over 100 playable characters in the final game. It will be interesting
to see how many characters have unique aspects like these, and which are simply
different skins. However, based on what we've seen so far, we're expecting Harry
Potter will meet or exceed other Lego titles in terms of unique characters. 
Spells & Potions:
The main ingredient to the Lego series' success has always been gameplay
variety. In addition to the game's different characters, Lego Harry Potter changes
things up through the use of spells and potions. Spells function similarly to
force powers in Lego Star Wars, and are learned throughout the game via
classroom lessons. Early spells include: a basic lightning spell for breaking
down objects into precious Lego studs; Lumos, for lighting dark areas and
scaring off monsters; and Wingardium Leviosa, for assembling broken Lego blocks
back into functioning objects. Progression through Hogwarts is primarily tied
to spells, as each new skill opens up previously inaccessible areas.
Potions also grant the player extra powers, but only for a
limited time. In order to make a potion, players must first gather a number of
ingredients from the surrounding area. Some are simply scattered around the
environment, while others are hidden or require defeating enemies in order to
collect them. 
Magic spells acquired from attending classes will unlock new areas in Hogwarts
Puzzles: 
The Lego series is the definition of a collect-a-thon, and Lego Harry Potter is
no exception. In addition to the Lego studs that erupt from just about every
object in the game, you'll collect Red Brick sets, Gold Bricks, pieces of the
Hogwarts Crest, character tokens, and more. But the incessant collecting is
broken up by innumerous entertaining puzzles. Many involve using Wingardium
Leviosa to automatically put together broken contraptions, but some involve
manually lining up Lego blocks to create stairways or reassemble characters,
which are more engaging. Some characters also have pets, which sport their own
special abilities: You can control Ron's pet rat Scabbers to scamper through
pipes to areas human characters can't reach. Another set of puzzles called "Students
in Peril," task players with helping Harry's classmates out of various dilemmas,
such as scaring off a group of bullies with a magic spell, or helping a kid
down from a chandelier by arranging blocks beneath his feet. None of the
puzzles I've come across have been too difficult, but they've all been unique,
and often humorous, which will go a long way toward keeping players engaged.
Customization: 
Between story missions, players are free to roam down Diagon Alley, which
hosts a number of stores aimed at customizing your character. These include
shops for buying new playable characters, cheats, and malevolent spells to pester
the game's inhabitants with. You can also create your own custom characters by
mixing and matching different body parts and clothes. Diagon Alley also gives
you access to the game's level builder. Players who tried out the level builder
in Indiana Jones 2 will know what to expect, albeit this time you'll have all
of the objects and characters from Harry Potter at your disposal. All of the
items in Diagon Alley are unlocked with the studs and other Lego pieces you
collect in the story levels, which should keep completionists occupied for a
long, long time.
After a few hours of play, it was apparent that we only
scratched the surface of what Lego Harry Potter has to offer. Lego Harry Potter:
Years 1-4 will be available June 29. 

