
  Meet Battleborn's Oscar Mike, Miko, & Phoebe






Gearbox's newest cooperative and competitive shooter gathers
heroes from across the universe in a battle over the final burning star. This
epic premise not only allows the developer to present gamers with characters of
wildly contrasting themes, but play styles as well. In today's feature, we're
looking at three characters who illustrate Battleborn's extreme variety: the
prototypical space soldier, Oscar Mike; a mystical fungi warrior named Miko; and a telekinetic rapier-wielding technocrat named Phoebe. Read on to learn
about each character's unique weapons and abilities, and for our hands-on impressions
of the game.
Click on the image for a larger view
Name: Oscar MikeFaction: PeacekeepersIf you've ever played a Call of Duty or Battlefield game, Oscar
Mike will be instantly familiar to you. The consummate soldier exhibits an
unwavering commitment to the United Peacekeeping Republic, serving on the
frontlines of whatever conflict he's been sent to. Gearbox says that while Oscar
Mike's tone is tongue-in-cheek, he's not meant to mock fans of military
shooters, but merely play on the tropes and themes we're all so familiar with. Gearbox
also teased that Oscar Mike's personal history contains some unique twists and
surprises that separate him from the stereotypical space marine, which players
will learn about during the course of the game. From a gameplay perspective,
Oscar Mike's weapons, abilities, and mechanics function exactly as you'd expect
them to, making him an easy entry point for new players.
Primary Weapon:
Assault RifleOscar Mike's assault rifle is the most straightforward
weapon in Battleborn. Players shoot with the right trigger, and can aim down
the sights for greater accuracy by holding in the left trigger. One of Oscar
Mike's level upgrades allows him to choose between a scope or red-dot sight; since
Battleborn's rapid leveling system resets after every match, players can adapt
and experiment with their upgrades more easily than the slow progression paths
military shooters usually afford.
Unique Abilities:
Frag Grenade – If
you've ever played a first-person shooter, you know how Oscar Mike's frag
grenades function. However, like all abilities in Battleborn, these explosive
accessories work on cooldown timers, so you won't have to worry about scouring
the environment for extra supplies. 
Pulse Grenade – Oscar
Mike's pulse grenades work exactly like frag grenades, but deal a large amount
of damage to an enemy's shields instead of their health. These are especially
handy when facing the opposing team's giant spider mechs, should your
A.I.-controlled minions come up short during the heat of battle.
Tactical Rounds – This
passive ability causes the first and last round in every one of Oscar Mike's
magazines to deal three times the normal amount of damage. Later upgrades in
Oscar Mike's upgrade tree can apply further modifiers, such as a concussive
effect that causes the first round of a magazine to slow enemies.
Ultimate Ability:
Airstrike – Unlocked
at level seven, Oscar Mike's ultimate ability allows him to call in a missile
strike, which deals major damage to an area for a short period of time.
Airstrike is powerful enough to take down an entire swarm of minions at once, and
can be used to disperse an opposing team that makes the mistake of sticking too
close together during firefights.
Hands-on Impressions:Oscar Mike was the first character I played as, and he
instantly gave me a leg up on my fellow editors who struggled to acclimate to
some of Battleborn's more specialized characters (which I was more than happy
to take advantage of, naturally). Oscar Mike's grenades are downright mundane
compared to the abilities of other characters, but were consistently useful and
managed to keep melee-focused enemies like Rath at a distance (thanks to my
patented throw-a-grenade-at-my-feet-and-run-away technique). Once I added a
scope to my assault rifle, I had a much easier time taking down enemies from afar,
and Airstrike gave me some strategic options as well. I eventually found other
characters more interesting, but I can see myself going back to Oscar Mike
whenever my team needs a good grunt on the battlefield.
Coming Up Next: The
Eldrid's mysterious mushroom warrior, Miko...
Click on the image for a larger view
Name: MikoFaction: EldridMiko is one of the sole survivors of a species of sentient
mushroom beings. These bipedal creatures shared a collective consciousness and
spanned an entire planet in one huge fungal megacolony – until the mysterious
Varelsi wiped out their star. Since then, Miko has joined the other members of
the nature-loving Eldrid faction to fight against the Varelsi and compete with
the other factions for control over Solus, the last star in the universe.   
Primary Weapon: KunaiMiko is a support character, and thus focuses mostly on healing
and helping out other team members. However, Miko's poisonous kunai shouldn't
be underestimated as an offensive weapon. Pressing the right trigger throws them
one by one, while the left trigger unleashes seven weaker blades at once in a
horizontal spread.
Unique Abilities:
Cloud of Spores – This
offensive ability allows Miko to throw down an exploding spore sac that damages
enemies caught in the blast. It also slows them down, making it a valuable
support tool as well.
Poultice – Miko's
Poultice ability allows the player to instantly heal a teammate. The power also
acts as a buff, providing additional health to the ally for a short period of
time.
Medicinal Mycology – This
passive ability adds poison damage to Miko's kunai, dealing additional damage
over a short period of time. This poison damage does not stack, however.
Ultimate Ability:
Fungus Among Us – This
ultimate ability allows the player to drop Miko's mushroom cap on the ground,
which deals area-of-effect damage to enemies for several seconds. It also
simultaneously heals teammates within its radius.
Hands-on Impressions:
Miko can't survive long in head-to-head battles with enemies, which makes
the character a difficult selection for newcomers. With a skilled player at the
controller, however, having Miko on your team can be a game changer. Miko's
Fungus Among Us ability is great for crowd control and defending the team's
spider mechs; placing one down near the A.I.-controlled mechanical beast is
sure to scare off attacking enemies, and gives teammates in need of health a
place to rally around. Miko's healing powers can also transform a tank like
Montana (who we will cover later this week) into a nearly unstoppable force if the
two characters stick together. If you see Miko lurking on the outskirts of a
battle, you'll want to take the mushroom warrior down as quickly as possible.

Coming Up Next: We
take a look at the L.L.C.'s aristocratic swordswoman, Phoebe...
Click on the image for a larger view
Name: PhoebeFaction: Last Light
Consortium (L.L.C.)Even in a game full of insane characters, Phoebe stands out
on the battlefield – or floats above it, as the case may be. Phoebe is one of
the final remaining human members of the Last Light Consortium, a profit-driven
collection of corporations that sells weapons to all of the warring factions. Phoebe
also has telekinetic powers, which she uses to attack enemies with her floating
rapiers.
Primary Weapon: RapierIn addition to her four floating rapiers, Phoebe holds a fifth
blade in her right hand. Pressing the right trigger will stab at an enemy
within close range, and it can be chained into a three-attack combo. Pressing the
left trigger performs a swipe attack that can hit multiple opponents and can be
chained for a two-hit combo.
Abilities:
Balestra – While
not completely finalized, Balestra allows Phoebe to instantly teleport to a
targeted area while simultaneously reducing the damage she takes. Gearbox says
the ability may also buff teammates or de-buff enemies. 
Blade Whip – This
powerful offensive ability sends Phoebe's floating rapiers flying out in front
of her in a direct line of attack, providing her with a little more range than her melee attacks afford.
True Strike – Phoebe's
passive skill causes her telekinetic blades to deal extra damage to her primary
attacks; right-trigger attacks prime the floating blades, increasing their
strength, while left-trigger attacks unleash them on the targeted enemies. True
Strike can be further augmented by Phoebe's level upgrades, providing
additional buffs to herself or allies when triggered.
Ultimate Ability:
Riposte – As the
name suggests, Phoebe's ultimate ability gives her the opportunity to block a
single incoming attack from an enemy. Phoebe can't move while triggering Riposte,
but if the block is successful, her telekinetic rapiers strike out in a series
of attacks that damage and temporarily stun all enemies in their path.
Impressions: Phoebe
wasn't playable during our hands-on time with Battleborn, so we don't yet know
how she stacks up to other playable characters. However, Gearbox describes her
as a disruptor – a character designed to distract enemies and disrupt the flow
of battle. Her ability to float above the battlefield certainly seems
distracting enough, and her focus on combo-driven melee attacks suggests she'll
be a dangerous foe in close-range encounters.
Come back later in
the week for more character reveals and hands-on impressions. For our full
month of Battleborn coverage, check out our hub by clicking the banner below.

