
  118 Rapid-Fire Questions About Marvel's Midnight Suns






            With a new game like Marvel's Midnight Suns, there's a lot to process. How does the title feel? What heroes are in the game? Who the heck are the Midnight Suns. I know what you're thinking. The world moves too fast sometimes to be able to keep up with all the latest information on some of 2022's biggest video game releases. But what if I were to tell you there's a handy YouTube video where you could learn all about the latest game from Marvel and Firaxis Games?

That's right, folks, we're bringing you another patented episode of Rapid-Fire, our interview series where we grill the developers of the biggest and best titles in quick succession, giving you all the burning answers you crave and even the ones you don't. We've brought in Jake Solomon, creative director at Firaxis Games, to discuss Marvel's Midnight Suns for this month's! Join Ben Reeves as he rattles off 118 questions on many different and exciting topics surrounding the developer's latest title. The two go over the influences for the game, where the card system originated from, what heroes made the final roster, and so much more!

If you enjoyed this look at Marvel's Midnight Suns, this is just a taste of this month's official Game Informer cover story. Head over to our hub linked below to find our hands-on impressions of our time with the game, a deep-dive into who the Midnight Suns are, and a look at Lilith, the game's big bad.

Fans excited to get their hands on Midnight Suns don't have long to wait as Firaxis' newest title launches in March 2022 on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC.

Thanks as always for watching! If you enjoyed the video, be sure to leave a comment in the section below to let Ben know how funny he is.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Midnight Suns

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), May 11, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

