
  Breath Of The Wild 2 Delay, PlayStation Plus, And Weird West | GI Show






            We're back with another fantastic episode of The Game Informer Show! Join us this week for a news-heavy pod, where we dive into The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Sequel being delayed and the PlayStation Plus changes coming in June. That's not all, though, as we're also breaking down our time at the Game Developers Conference and our review impressions of Weird West, publisher Devolver Digital's exciting new immersive sim. As always, we end all the fun with another round of Listener Questions that Muppet fans won't want to miss!

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Jill Grodt (@Finruin), and Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:04:25 - Breath of the Wild Sequel Delay
00:21:12 - PlayStation Plus Changes
00:55:07 - Weird West
01:13:52 - GDC 2022 Impressions
01:34:11 - Housekeeping
01:40:02 - Listener Questions

            News:

            Breath of the Wild 2 Delay and PlayStation Plus Changes

The Legend Of Zelda: Breath Of The Wild Sequel Delayed To Spring 2023

Sony Unveils New PlayStation Plus Options That Combine Plus And Now Together

PlayStation CEO Says First-Party Games Will Not Launch Day One On Revamped PS Plus

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer Staff discuss the games they're playing.

            The Playlist before Topic of the Show? That sounds weird, right? You're darn tootin', partner, as this week's segment is all about Weird West, the exciting new immersive sim from developer WolfEye Studios. Van Aken is here to chat about his review impressions of the latest Devolver Digital joint and highlights the game's interesting characters, strange yet alluring sci-fi world, and how the gameplay compliments this bizarre but enticing experience.

Read our Weird West review here.

            Topic of the Show:

            GDC 2022 Impressions

            For the first time in a long time, the Game Developers Conference was held in person, and the Incineroar of Indies Jill Grodt had the pleasure of attending. Join Jill as she talks about what it was like being back at a conference that holds special meaning to her, what games she got to play, and her overall impressions of the smaller experience. We also dissect one of GDC's biggest controversies: a prevalent former GI staff member...licking a burrito (I know, I'm sick too).

Read our Bugsnax DLC impressions here.

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            This week's Listener Questions are a blast, featuring inquiries on the Breath of the Wild delay, the best Muppets, and our favorite Cinderella story games.

Read this week's questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

How relieved are you that you won't have to have BoTW2 vs. Elden Ring GOTY discussions? - Crater (Discord)

Who's the GI Crews' favorite Muppet? - SavoyPrime (Discord)

In honor of the collegiate basketball tournament nearing its' end and the Cinderella story St. Peters being knocked out of it, here's my question... what is your personal favorite Cinderella story game. If you're not familiar with that term, what game were you not expecting to play or enjoy, and it completely surprised you, in a good way? - AFireOutside (Disord)

            For more Game Informer podcasts, check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Weird West

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 31, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), May 8, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

