
                                          Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers Edition 
                  


  Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers Edition | New Gameplay Today




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Publisher
Square Enix

Developer
Square Enix

Release
April 7, 2022

Rating
Teen

            In recent years, Square Enix has been porting a portion of its hallowed JRPG library onto modern consoles in a plethora of ways. Titles from Final Fantasy, the Mana series, and more have found their way onto consoles such as the Nintendo Switch, providing an excellent history lesson to those who want to understand the foundations of contemporary RPGs. Chrono Cross is next on the list, and on this episode of New Gameplay Today, we're taking a look at the fan-favorite title and letting you know how The Radical Dreamers Edition holds up.

Join host Alex Stadnik and JRPG-expert Kim "KStar" Wallace as they take you on a tour of the game's remastered opening hours. They highlight all the changes Square Enix has implemented, including graphics switching, speeding up gameplay, and so much more. They also chat about the visual improvements of The Radical Dreamers Edition and whether or not newcomers or veterans will enjoy this return to the beloved series.

Finally, they also discuss some of the technical issues they've run into. While the game is playable, the frame rate takes noticeable dips from time to time, and both Kim and Stadnik noticed the game can be stuttery during their hands-on time with the Switch version. Is it enough to derail the experience? You'll just have to watch our New Gameplay Today to find out.

If you're excited for Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers Edition, you don't have much longer to wait, as Square's latest remaster releases on April 7 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC.

For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for early looks at Vampire: The Masquerade - Swansong, Forspoken, and so much more! Thanks for watching today's video.

      Products In This Article

Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers Edition 

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

April 7, 2022

Purchase
More Info

