
  Elden Ring Review And Ben Reeves Says Goodbye | GI Show






            Today's new episode of The Game Informer Show is bursting with everything you need to know about Elden Ring as we discuss why we think developer FromSoftware's latest adventure lives up to the hype. That's not all though, as we're also wishing longtime GI vet Ben Reeves a fond farewell as he sails off to great things at his new position, along with another great round of Listener Questions.

Production Note: Our recording software cut out during the episode, so we apologize for any audio hitches you may encounter. We'll have everything taken care of next week. We appreciate your understanding. 

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Dan Tack (@dantack), Ben Reeves (@BenjaminReeves), and Jay Guisao (@Jason_Guisao)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:04:16 – Ben Reeves Says Goodbye
00:13:58 – Elden Ring Review Discussion
00:52:27 – Far: Changing Tides
00:57:03 – Neon White Demo
01:01:17 – Earthbound on Switch
01:06:28 – Housekeeping
01:10:48 – Listener Questions

            Topic Of The Show:

            Elden Ring Is A Stunner

            For years, From fans the world over have wondered how their favorite developer would top the seminal highs of Bloodborne, Sekiro, and the Souls series. FromSoftware's answer is Elden Ring, and according to our own Dan Tack, it sets a new bar for other titles to aspire to. Join our resident Souls expert, alongside relative first-time players Van Aken and Jay, as they break down why Elden Ring has been such a joy to play and what players should expect heading into the weekend in this spoiler-free discussion.

Read our Elden Ring review here. 

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            This week's Listener Questions segment is filled with loving questions for our departing Ben Reeves, where the crew discusses their favorite stories, Benventions, and Replay moments, alongside a chat about Reeves' literary career. 

Read this week's questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

Question for the panel, working for game informer what has been your favorite piece, and which was the most difficult. - RAWKPARTEE (Discord)

Does Ben plan to write/release any more novels? - Zach Pligge (Discord)

What is your best Benvention from your time at GI? - BiscuitsWithDavey (Discord)

Question for Reeves - are you, like a spider-nut? But for real, gonna miss him at GI and his specific brand of street comedy, but wish him all the luck. Firaxis is lucky to get him! Actual question - any standout Been Reeves Replay / Super Replay moments? - Bobby Buel (Discord)

            For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Far: Changing Tides

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 1, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Earthbound

Platform:

Wii U

Release Date:

2013

Purchase
More Info

Neon White

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 16, 2022 (Switch, PC), December 13, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
contributed to this article.

