
  Exclusive: Halo Infinite Now Vs. 2020 Campaign Comparison (4K)






            It's a demo Halo fans will never forget. In 2020, developer 343 Industries brought its latest take on the Halo franchise to the masses during one of Microsoft's digital events. Halo Infinite's gameplay debut was met with some positivity but spawned an online firestorm and popularized conversation around Craig The Brute, among other discussions. It's been over a year since fans were shown that demo, and a lot has changed ahead of Halo Infinite's campaign release on December 8. Before that long-awaited day, join us for a unique updated look at the campaign in all its new shining glory.

Today's video isn't a complete one-to-one recreation of the 2020 footage, but rather a potent illustration of how the team has improved upon that earlier foundation, including both side-by-side cinematics, and gameplay from both versions. Both demos are set in the same portion of the game, and take place a few hours into the campaign as Master Chief fights through waves of The Banished to take out anti-aircraft towers, all with the help of The Pilot and John's new AI companion, The Weapon. The 2021 demo takes a different path than the 2020 version, but both segments end with Chief doing what he does best and coming across the now-famous speech from Escharum, one of the leading villains players will come to know when they get their hands on the game in a few weeks. Bare your fangs, Halo fans. This is just the beginning.

Is the wait for Halo Infinite's campaign feeling too long? We understand and want to help you through this time with our exciting new cover story! This month, we're diving into a ton of new and compelling interviews, gameplay videos, and more from the team behind the next entry in Master Cheif's story. Be sure to check out our quick looks at the opening level of the game, our campaign impressions, learn more about exploration and progression, and our look into the creation of the devious bots from the earlier versions of the multiplayer test flights. Thanks for watching, and let us know what you thought of the video in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

