
                                          Halo Infinite
                  


  First Look At Halo Infinite's Campaign, New Weapon, and More (4K)




Platform
Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Publisher
Xbox Game Studios

Developer
343 Industries

Release
December 8, 2021

Rating
Teen

            Halo Infinite is a few mere weeks away, but you don't have to wait that long to get a new look at campaign gameplay! Join Matt Miller and Alex Stadnik as they take you on a brief 4K tour of some of the things you can expect from Master Chief's next adventure!

There's a ton to unpack here, but we're showing off one of the new base encounters for players to frag their way through in today's video. Throughout Halo Infinite's campaign, you'll have to make your way through Banished strongholds to complete your mission, whether that's saving Spartans and UNSC marines or fighting off some of the game's most treacherous bosses. There's no right way to take on these encounters either – one person may find it advantageous to sneak their way through these structures, while others will want to go in guns-a-blazing (like you'll see in the footage above). 

While you're giving the Banished hell, don't forget to look around. In today's gameplay video, we show you the location of a Spartan Core, the game's upgrade currency that will enhance Chief's equipment, such as the Grappleshot. 

We also get to show off one of the game's newest weapons: the Stalker Rife. It's a Banished weapon that feels like it's in the family of the Covenant Carbine, although this semi-automatic rifle packs more of a punch and is perfect for mid to long-range encounters.

This is just the start of the fun for fans eagerly awaiting the December 8 release of Halo Infinite! Join us over the next few weeks at Game Informer as we offload a ton of new information about developer 343's latest entry in the iconic series, including a deeper dive into the campaign, our new impressions of the single-player mode, and so much more! Thanks for watching, and we hope you enjoy the coverage!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

