
  Forspoken | Exclusive New Gameplay Today (4K)






            After weeks of Forspoken fun, the video portion of our coverage is coming to an end. But we're not going quietly into that good night. We have one last 4K episode of New Gameplay Today with developer Luminous Productions' exciting followup to Final Fantasy XV, including even more exclusive looks at the game. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Join Alex Stadnik as he assembles the dream team to go into the nitty-gritty of Forspoken with industry powerhouses Kim Wallace and Jill Grodt. The three of them kick things off with a look at an area of the game that has been ravaged by The Break, a storm that's causing inhabitants of Athia to mutate into fantastical and disturbing creatures. Just like our previous coverage, protagonist Frey Holland's powers are on full display, showing off her vast array of spells she can wield and all the gorgeous particle effects to compliment them. We also jump into our hands-off thoughts on the game's traversal and discuss why we hope it will be one of the highlights of our experience. 

Finally, we wrap up this fun 10-minute look at the game with our closing thoughts on Square Enix's next action RPG, and what we're thinking of our time seeing the game ahead of its October 11 release date for PlayStation 5 and PC.

We know you're sad our coverage of Forspoken is wrapping up shortly, but fear not. We still have one more written piece coming to the website. If that's just not enough, you can enjoy plenty of Forspoken content, including our written and video looks at the numerous spells in the game, our preview impressions on an episode of The Game Informer Show, and so much more. Be sure to click on the image below to head over to our coverage hub as well. Thank you so much for watching, and we hope you enjoy this beautiful 4K episode of New Gameplay Today!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Forspoken

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

January 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

