
  Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut (PS5) | New Gameplay Today






While I don't need to regale you of the trials of 2020, last year was an absolute banger of a year for video games. Titles such as The Last of Us Part II, Hades, and Animal Crossing: New Horizons wowed us with emotional stories, frenetic moment-to-moment gameplay, and a much-needed sense of escapism from the world crumbling around us. 

One of the year's main highlights was also a PlayStation exclusive and didn't feature Joel or Ellie. Ghost of Tsushima wowed us when it was first released last year and was a stark reminder that the development team over at Sucker Punch knows how to make great video games. 

The studio hasn't rested on its laurels, though, as Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut will launch later this week, and (we're not bragging, we promise) we've gotten to go hands-on with all the latest additions.

Join Matt Miller and Alex Stadnik for a tour of Iki Island, the home of Ghost of Tsushima's latest expansion. On this fresh episode of New Gameplay Today, we're taking a look at a plethora of updates that fans of the game won't want to miss. The combat system grows with new enemies, the shamans, that will call allies in to try and overwhelm you. These powerhouses are lethal and even regular enemies can switch their weapons on the fly, forcing players to be even more focused on what stance they elect to do battle in.

On top of the exciting new tweaks to combat, the Iki Island expansion also features a story that nicely intertwines with the original narrative. We won't spoil the fun here but know the new tale skillfully weaves into Jin's tragic tale of family, honor, and the horrors of war.

Speaking of spoilers, we also want to point out that while we did our best not to ruin the fun for anyone picking up the new content, everything you see is from the first hours of the game and has minor spoilers attached to them. You have been warned!

If comments are still showing as disabled, a site update is happening on our side that has caused a temporary takedown. We hope to have them back up and running soon so our community can go back to sharing their thoughts with us about everything gaming-related!

      Products In This Article

Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

August 20, 2021

Purchase
More Info

