
                                          Ghostwire: Tokyo
                  


  GhostWire: Tokyo | New Gameplay Today (4K)




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Publisher
Bethesda Softworks

Developer
Tango Gameworks

Release
March 25, 2022

Rating
Teen

If nothing else, GhostWire: Tokyo promises to be one of the wilder adventures of 2022. Join us as we sit down with developer Tango Gameworks' latest creation and show off a quick five minutes of glorious 4K gameplay!

But what exactly is GhostWire: Tokyo? Join Stadnik and Blake, who recently went to the game's preview event, as they regale you with what they saw and why it's Mr. Hester's most anticipated game of the year. 

In today's new gameplay video, we're showing off the spooky yet beautiful environments players will traverse as they battle what goes bump in the night in Tokyo. The world is full of specters that will end your adventure quickly and will keep you on your toes the whole way through. Speaking of battling, we're also showing off a quick look at some of the game's abilities and how you'll be able to decimate the spirits that wish to do you harm. What's more, we're also giving you a look at the skill tree, a quick glimpse of the map, and a peek at everyone's favorite game feature: the ability to pet the cute animal friends found throughout the world. Thanks for watching, and we hope you enjoy the video.

In case you missed it, we've had a busy week over on the YouTube page. If you're a fan of New Gameplay Today, you're in luck as we've been previewing some of the biggest upcoming games of 2022 and beyond, including Gran Turismo 7, Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection, and Mina the Hollower. If that's not enough, we've been going hard with our exclusive Elden Ring coverage. We've got new looks at gameplay, a Q&A where the one and only Dan Tack answered as many questions about his time with the game, and a whole section on the latest episode of The Game Informer Show!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Ghostwire: Tokyo

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 25, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PC), April 12, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

