
  GI Show — Outriders Exclusive, Anthem, Mega Community Emails






            Welcome to the newest episode of The Game Informer Show aka the Leocast! This week, Leo Vader takes the reins and is joined by Jeff Cork, Joe Juba, and I to chat about why the new third-person shooter Outriders had them buzzing after visiting People Can Fly's studio in Poland.

After dissecting Outrider's gaming goodness, we examine the latest Anthem news out of Bioware and discuss if it can become the game we were all hoping it would with the studio going dark to create a clearer vision of the sci-fi shooter.

Wrapping up the show, we rope Dan Tack into the madness and tackle a huge community email section that had us in stitches and questioning our sanity all the way through.

Thanks for listening! Please make sure to leave feedback below, share the episode if you enjoyed it, and follow @therealandymc, @leovader, or me at @Studnik76 to let us know what you think. 

You can watch the video above, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen on SoundCloud, stream it on Spotify, or download the MP3 at the bottom of the page. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below.

Outriders: 2:02
Anthem: 25:30
Community Emails: 35:17

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Anthem

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 22, 2019

Purchase
More Info

Outriders

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

April 1, 2021

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

