
  Halo Series Episode 4 Review – One Step Forward, Two Steps Back






            Last week on the Halo series, we saw Master Chief and Kwan headed off to their respective homes to seek some sort of resolution to both their problems. But were our heroes victorious in their respective paths? Join us on The Game Informer Show as we review "Homecoming," the fourth episode in the Paramount Plus show, and let you know if it continues to build on the success of the previous episode.

Your regular hosts are back for another round of hilarity and analysis that you've come to expect from GI's review of the Halo series. Alex Stadnik, Andrew Reiner, and Brian Shea are breaking down this week's episode and have a lot to say about another step back for a series that includes some of the most iconic characters in video games.

We start the episode with the promise of answers to what's going on with John's memories and the artifact that somehow connects to what we can presume is one of the Halo rings. Those answers come at the end of the episode, but "Homecoming" spends far too much time drawing out those scenes, continuing the series' trend of poor pacing. On top of that, we finally find ourselves on Madrigal with Soren and Kwan, which continues to feel like a distraction from the main story we care about.

There are some positive aspects of episode four, though. Kai has followed John's lead and gone rogue by removing her emotions-blocking pellet and starts to see the world a bit differently. Her interactions with Miranda Keyes and the rest of the Spartans provide some levity and clarity and prove there is hope for the series yet.

What do you think about Halo thus far? Be sure to let us know in the comments below. We'd also love your feedback on the extra GI Show episodes. Do you like them? Do you want to see us focus on games or the Marvel shows in the future? Please email us at podcast@gameinformer.com or reach out on Discord as we want to know what you think.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

