
  Halo Series Episode 2 Review - Going In The Wrong Direction






There's only room to go up, right? The Halo series has been a rollercoaster thus far, and episode two proved to be one of the lower parts of the ride. Join us on this bonus episode of The Game Informer Show as we break down what we liked and hated from this week's adventure.

Alex Stadnik, Andrew Reiner, and Brian Shea are back for another week of analysis and are SPOILING the entirety of Chief's adventure. If you're interested in our thoughts on the first show, be sure to check out our review discussion of last week's episode, Contact.

Chief and new friend Kwan have escaped the clutches of the UNSC and are on a quest to figure out what the mysterious artifact is that John-117 stole from The Covenant on Madrigal. Back on Reach, the military arm of the human population finally agrees to let Dr. Halsey go forward with her plans for Cortana in light of the Chief's shocking act of disobedience. We're also introduced to Soren-066 and learn of his history with everyone's favorite giant green Spartan. Does any of this week's episode land? Disappointingly (and resoundingly) no, but you'll have to listen to get our full thoughts.

As stated last week, the Halo review marks a new series for The GI Show, one we're hoping you'll give your feedback on. This is an experiment for us, and we'd love to know what you like and what you think could go better. We'd also love to see what you want us to cover after the Halo series, whether that would be more spoilercasts, gaming book clubs, or whatever else you can think of. Thanks for watching, and we hope you enjoy the show!

For those looking for the regular GI Show, head over to YouTube or your favorite podcast services to learn more about our time at GDC 2022, our Weird West impressions, and our thoughts on The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild 2 getting delayed.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

