
  Halo Series Episode 5 Review – Best Episode Yet






            It's no secret that the Halo series has seen its fair share of ups and downs. Episode one saw an exciting introduction to both the iconic Spartans and the brutal Covenant forces that seek to tear humanity apart. 

But then we got weeks of melodrama and ill-paced storylines that made us question if we wanted to continue with the show. Episode five, titled "Reckoning," is a stark reminder of why this series has so much potential, and we're breaking it all down on this special edition of The Game Informer Show!

Join Alex Stadnik and Andrew Reiner as they bring on Kate Sanchéz, EIC and entertainment critic for But Why Tho?, to discuss and spoil the fantastic battle and more from this week's entry in the Paramount Plus series. We start the proceedings off by gauging Kate's level of enjoyment for the show and blow through some of the other less exciting plot points to get to the good stuff.

We also touch on the thankfully brief encounters with Soren and Kwan as they trek through the desert, en route to Madrigal. While that storyline continues to suffer, it wasn't much of a deterrent, as the panel all walked away from this week's show excited for what's to come.

Programming Note: Our Episode six review will premiere on Monday, May 1, instead of the regular Friday timeslot. This is due to a particular video editor and his need to take a vacation. We appreciate your patience and look forward to continuing the series review!

What do you think about Halo thus far? Be sure to let us know in the comments below. We'd also love your feedback on the extra GI Show episodes. Do you like them? Do you want to see us focus on games or the Marvel shows in the future? Please email us at podcast@gameinformer.com or reach out on Discord as we want to know what you think.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

