
  Halo Series Episode 1 Review - Unmasking The Pilot's Highs and Lows






For the last decade-plus, the failure to launch a Halo show or movie has been as synonymous with the series as Needlers and energy swords. That all changes this year as Paramount Plus has finally released the first episode of the long-awaited series but does it live up to the hype? Join the Alexes, Reiner, and Shea on this bonus episode of The Game Informer Show, where they SPOIL and recap everything from episode one of the new Paramount Plus show.

Today's bonus podcast episode marks the first in a new series for The GI Show. Stadnik, Van Aken, and a rotating crew of your favorite editors will be watching the Halo series every week and breaking down what they liked and didn't like for the week's new entry. This bonus show is an experiment for us, so we welcome all constructive feedback for the latest addition to the pod. If you like the bonus content, we're open to the return of spoilercasts, game clubs, and more long-form discussions, so please reach out and let us know what you want to see in the future!

If you missed this week's show, be sure to check out our review discussions of Tiny Tina's Wonderlands, Ghostwire: Tokyo, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land! We also discuss the big news of the return of the Witcher series and what the switch to Unreal Engine could mean for the future of one of gaming's most popular RPGs.

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

