
  Halo Series Episode 9 + Season 1 Review






            The conclusion to the first season of Master Chief's TV adventures is finally here, but did it stick the landing or continue to frustrate us? Join us for another special episode of The GI Show, where we're reviewing both episode nine of Halo and season one as a whole.

Sorry, this video is not available

The regular team is back to wrap up the season, but we couldn't do a Halo review without a familiar friend. Alex Stadnik, Brian Shea, and Andrew Reiner are joined by Kate Sánchez, founder of But Why Tho? to break down the highs and lows of this episode and the season in this spoiler-filled discussion.

In episode nine, we find John and company reeling from the fallout of Makee's decision, setting the stage for the final battle. The good news is that "Transcendence" has plenty of satisfying action that genuinely feels like what we love about Halo as a video game. The bad news is those questionable story choices continue to bring down our enjoyment of the series.

When looking at the first season as a whole, it's clear that plenty of things could have been better. In that spirit, we finish out this episode of The GI Show and our Halo review with our thoughts on the state of Master Chief, Halsey, and Co.'s tale and whether or not we're excited about a second season. We also grade the show on the GI review scale for those dying to know what we thought numerically.

Thank you so much for joining us on this journey. While the show had its ups and downs, it was so fun to get to chat with the community on a weekly basis. We hope you enjoyed these videos, and we're so excited to continue our review series in the not too distant future. 

What do you think about Halo? Be sure to let us know in the comments below. We'd also love your feedback on the extra GI Show episodes. Do you like them? Do you want to see us focus on games or the Marvel shows in the future? Please email us at podcast@gameinformer.com or reach out on Discord as we want to know what you think.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

