
  Halo Infinite: 117 Rapid-Fire Questions With Joseph Staten






Halo Infinite is having a big few weeks. On top of the free-to-play multiplayer suite launching ahead of the full game's release on December 8, Master Chief's next adventure is also the focus of the latest Game Informer cover story! And what's a cover story without a brand new Rapid-Fire interview with the one and only Joseph Staten?

Join us as we sit down with 343's head of creative to discuss all things Halo Infinite in our patented scorching-fast style. Joseph was kind enough to put up with us for 117 questions that span everything fans will want to know about one of the biggest games of 2021. In true Rapid-Fire fashion, we have plenty of questions centered on getting to the bottom of Halo Infinite. Who is the Weapon? Will there be new maps and firearms added to the multiplayer suite as time goes on? What happened to Chief and Cortana after the events of Halo 5?

It also wouldn't be a Rapid-Fire without some questions you probably wouldn't think to ask, like what kind of broadway musical does Chief listen to while slaying The Banished and saving the universe? You'll get the answer to that question and so much more during this exclusive interview that you can find above!

Is the wait for Halo Infinite's campaign feeling too long? We understand and want to help you through this time with our exciting new cover story! This month, we're diving into a ton of new and compelling interviews, gameplay videos, and more from the team behind the next entry in Master Cheif's story. Be sure to check out our quick looks at the game's opening level, our campaign impressions, learn more about exploration and progression, and our look into the creation of the devious bots from the earlier versions of the multiplayer test flights. Thanks for watching, and let us know what you thought of the video in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

