
  How To Quickly Max Out Your Character In Scott Pilgrim vs. The World: The Game - Complete Edition






            Tired of getting your butt kicked by those blonde-haired jerks and fire breathing dragon plushies in Scott Pilgrim vs. The World: The Game Complete Edition? In today’s tip video, we’re going to show you how to max out your character during the first level and have you cruising through Romana’s evil exes in no time.

To start, go to the Shopping District housed on level one. If you’ve beaten the level, you should be able to go there immediately from the main hub. Once you mop up the enemies, walk over to the Delicious Cup coffee shop and enter the door. Go in and buy any of the item menus. Having one in your inventory will prevent you from losing lives after you input the following cheat code.

Once you’ve obtained the consumable, step outside, and input the classic code while holding the jump button: up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, block. You’ll lose all your health, but you’ll gain $50 in the process – and because of your wise ways of purchasing the tea earlier (which restores your health before you lose a life), you won’t have to worry about starting the level over.

Repeat this process until you’ve saved more than $504.25. Once you’ve cheated your way to the top, head over to No Account Video and pay off Scott’s late fees. From there, a slew of videotape boosters will become available to you. While each tape has specific bonuses, you’re only going to want to focus on purchasing two upgrades.

First up is the Seven Shaolin Masters videotape, which boosts each of your stats by 10 points. If you’re level one, purchase the tape 10 times to max out all your stats to 100.

Next up is the Alone and Disturbed videotape, which gives you a 1500 XP boost per purchase. Buy enough to unlock all the moves through level 16 and watch your foes quake in fear.

Obviously, buying the tapes still takes money, so you’ll have to go and repeat the cheat code entry a few more times to cover the price, but we can assure you it’s worth it.

Congratulations, you’ve now turned Scott into the equivalent of a Super Saiyan God. We don’t recommend you play this way on your first playthrough, but this method is great for maxing out all the characters on your quest to unlock Nega Scott.

Thanks for watching and if you’re curious about Scott Pilgrim, be sure to check out our thoughts on the game on The GI Show and New Gameplay Today!

            .

Alex Stadnik
Video Editor
Alex is usually the largest nerd in the room (literally) and has a deep-rooted passion for video games, movies, and a good beer. He grew up a Nintendo kid but is now an equal-opportunity gamer who’s trying to play more JRPGs.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Scott Pilgrim vs. The World: The Game - Complete Edition

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

January 14, 2021

Purchase
More Info

