
                                          Nintendo Switch Sports
                  


  Is Switch Sports Worth Buying | New Gameplay Today




Platform
Switch

Publisher
Nintendo

Developer
Nintendo

Release
April 29, 2022

            Wii Sports is one of the best-selling games of all time, so can a new entry in the series match the highs of its predecessor? We're checking out Nintendo Switch Sports on this episode of New Gameplay Today and letting you know if it is worth buying.

Join Alex Stadnik and Jay Guisao, the game's reviewer, as they take you on a tour of all the game modes old and new fans can expect when they pick up the title on April 29. First on the list is bowling. The classic game is back in Switch Sports and feels better than ever with the Nintendo Switch's more advanced motion controls. After you get a good look at Stadnik's skills on the lanes, we move over to tennis, and Jay lets you know why it was his favorite game mode in the original and why it still shines in 2022.

After that, we move to volleyball, one of Switch Sports' newest additions to the series. It may seem a little much at first, but once you master the different poses you need to bump, set, and spike, it becomes clear this fits right at home with all the games you remember from your time playing Wii Sports with your family.

Moving right along, we head to the badminton court, and Jay talks about why this specific mode has surpassed tennis as his new favorite game in Switch Sports. Instead of just mindlessly flailing the controller and volleying with their opponent, players will have to pay close attention to not only their swings but what the competition is sending back at them. The different lines behind the shuttlecock indicate different speeds, and those playing can lose their invisible stamina bar and fall if the volley goes on too long.

Finally, we move to chambara and soccer. The former is a hyper-competitive game of hitting each other with swords until one falls off into the pool of humiliation (Nintendo, call me if you need me to name anything) that will have you metaphorically and physically sweaty. The latter is similar to that of Rocket League, where players have to stay conscious of their stamina bars and the risks they take on the pitch if they hope to emerge victorious.

Are you excited about Nintendo Switch Sports? Be sure to check out Jay's review impressions right here. For more New Gameplay Today previews featuring some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page and subscribe.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Nintendo Switch Sports

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

April 29, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Stadnik
Video Editor
Alex is usually the largest nerd in the room (literally) and has a deep-rooted passion for video games, movies, and a good beer. He grew up a Nintendo kid but is now an equal-opportunity gamer who’s trying to play more JRPGs.

Email
Twitter

