
                                          Mina the Hollower
                  


  Mina The Hollower | New Gameplay Today




Platform
PC, Mac, Linux

Publisher
Yacht Club Games

Developer
Yacht Club Games

Release
TBA

            Long has the internet wondered what developer Yacht Club Games would do to follow up the success of the indie darling Shovel Knight. We now know the answer is Mina the Hollower, a gorgeous homage to Zelda and Game Boy titles of old, and we're going hands-on with the title on today's edition of New Gameplay Today!

Join John Carson and Alex Stadnik as they fill you in on everything you need to know about Mina. We detail the non-spoiler parts of the story and dive into who our new mouse protagonist is and why she's collecting as many bones as she can in the process.

We also take a look at the game's new mechanics. Don't worry Shovel Knight fans. There is still plenty of digging to be had as Mina burrows her way through this gorgeous pixel art world. She'll also be using Castlevania-inspired weapons such as a whip and throwing axes to slay her bone-clenching foes. She'll need every last weapon she can get her hands on, too, as Yacht Club also is upping the difficulty. Whether it's the aforementioned dastardly foes or the perilous puzzles, players will assuredly have their hands full when Mina the Hollower drops in late 2023.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Do you want to see more from the game? You're in luck. On top of this episode of New Gameplay Today, we're also showing off the game commentary free in our full playthrough of the provided demo. We know you'll miss our beautiful dulcet tones, but this way, you'll get to fully take in the beautiful GameBoy-inspired art, the bumping soundtrack, and the intense combat and puzzle sections!

Thanks as always for watching. If you enjoy previews of some of the biggest games from 2022 and beyond, be sure to subscribe to our YouTube page for every new episode of New Gameplay Today. Recently, we've gotten to go hands-on with Gran Turismo 7, Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection, and Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Mina the Hollower

Platform:

PC, Mac, Linux

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

