
  Psychonauts 2: 114 Rapid-Fire Questions With Tim Schafer






            Tim Schafer is one of the most iconic names in the world of video games. From his work at LucasArts creating seminal titles such as Grim Fandango and Day of the Tentacle to opening his own studio to make the original Psychonauts, Brütal Legend, and more, the celebrated developer has built a legacy producing humorous romps through a plethora of different gameplay styles. 

Schafer and his team at Double Fine hope to continue that trend with Psychonauts 2, a return to the wild world of psychic abilities that finds Raz and company using their special mental talents to fight those who would harm the rest of the world. Taking place just three days after the original title, the aforementioned protagonist finds himself entering the ranks of the Psychonauts and must learn to master his psychic abilities if he wants to help save the world.

But can Double Fine's latest adventure live up to the levels of creativity and nostalgia created by the original title? There's only one person to ask.

Join us as we sit down with Tim Shafer to discuss the new powers in the game, which characters are returning, and who we'll be up against, all in our patented rapid-fire fashion. That's not all, though! We also grill Schafer about how he got Jack Black into Brütal Legend, what the secret behind his iconic chili is, and so much more about his long history in the video game industry.

Enjoyed this look at Tim Schafer, Psychonauts 2, and the history of Double Fine? We have plenty more where that came from. Be sure to check out our exclusive content hub below, along with a first look at the game's new psi-powers, our Psychonauts 2 deep-dive on the latest episode of The GI Show, and a peek into how the developer is handling mental health in its latest title!

      Products In This Article

Psychonauts 2

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 25, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Brütal Legend

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

February 3, 2009

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

