
  Resident Evil 4 Remake Trailer Breakdown






Resident Evil fans have had a lot to celebrate over the years. Biohazard and Village have brought the series back to its horror roots in unique ways. The Resident Evil 2 and 3 Remakes have been a perfect way to relive the glories of the past with contemporary improvements. But what comes next? Resident Evil 4 Remake is the answer, and we're pouring over every detail of the new trailer in today's spoiler-filled breakdown.

Sorry, this video is not available

Alex Stadnik is your host for the video and welcomes Resident Evil 4 superfan Blake Hester to dissect every nook and cranny of Capcom's surprise announcement from the latest Sony State of Play. As stated above, we go into a lot of spoilers of the original game, so if you haven't played it yet, please bookmark this video and come back.

The boys kick things off by discussing their levels of surprise when the fourth entry in the iconic series makes its first appearance. They then break the trailer down scene by scene, letting you know what they think will be different and what will stay the same. They also ponder if the remake will feature a character similar to Mr. X, Nemesis, or Lady D instead of creating a straight one-to-one recreation. Finally, they wrap by discussing whether or not the game will get delayed and what their levels of hype are after seeing Leon's return.

Are you excited about Resident Evil 4? The wait isn't too long as Capcom's next remake is launching on March 24, 2023, for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC! For more on the big game announcements from the most recent State of Play, be sure to check out our articles on Final Fantasy XVI, Marvel's Spider-Man coming to PC, and so much more! Thanks so much for watching today's video. Please let us know what you think of the big announcement in the comments below.

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 4 (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

March 24, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), December 20, 2023 (Mac, iOS), December 8, 2023 (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

