
  Saints Row Cover, Metroid Dread, and Far Cry 6 Reviews | GI Show






            Welcome back to a massive episode of The Game Informer Show! This week, we have so much to discuss, including Sora coming to Smash Bros. Ultimate, our latest cover story featuring Saints Row, and our reviews of Metroid Dread and Far Cry 6. On top of that, we're discussing our review of the Nintendo Switch OLED and have some fun with community emails, all while joined by special guest Kate Sánchez from the pop culture website But Why Tho to break it all down.

Follow the crew on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), John Carson (@John_Carson), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Ben Reeves (@BenjaminReeves), and Kate Sánchez (@OhMyMithrandir)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:02:16 – Kate Sánchez Intro
00:09:46 – Sora In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
00:24:33 – Saints Row Cover Impressions
00:39:14 – Metroid Dread Review
01:01:57 – Far Cry 6 Review
01:32:31 – Nintendo Switch OLED Review
01:47:38 – Housekeeping
01:51:22 – New Podcast Announcement
01:53:36 – Community Emails

            News:

            Sora Enters The Fray In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate

Sora From Kingdom Hearts Is The Final Smash Bros. Ultimate Fighter Joining The Roster
Sora's Inclusion In Super Smawsh Bros. Ultimate Is A Perfect Series Sendoff For The Game's Creator
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Does Not Have Too Many 'Anime Sword Users'

            Topic Of The Show:

            Saints Row Cover Story

            This month's exciting Game Informer cover story is focused on the new Saints Row reboot. Alex Van Aken, Brian Shea, and John Carson are here to break down their exclusive hands-on time with the game. The gents go in-depth on developer Volition's newest entry in the series, including talks about gunplay, vehicular destruction, and how the city will play a huge role when the title launches on February 25, 2022.

Check out the coverage hub here.

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer Staff discuss the games they're playing.

            This week's playlist is one of the biggest of the year. Ben Reeves is here to kick things off with his review of Metroid Dread and discuss why even though Samus' first new 2D adventure on the Switch feels like a familiar ride to those who love the series, it nevertheless shouldn't be missed. Next up Shea, Kate, and Van Aken discuss their thoughts on Far Cry 6 and regale us with why there's plenty of highs and lows in Ubisoft's latest open-world title. Finally, Stadnik is here to wrap the segment with his review of the Nintendo Switch OLED and tell us why he thinks Nintendo's new console is perfect for undocked players but struggles to wow those who prefer their gaming on the TV.

Read our Metroid Dread review here.

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            This week's lovely listeners bring the fun to the show with questions on how gaming has been both a positive and negative in our lives and how it feels for GI to be hitting its 30th anniversary!

Read their questions below, or submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

What is an aspect of your life in which gaming has had a positive impact? Conversely, what is an aspect in which gaming has had a negative impact? - BiscuitsWithDavey (discord)

Hello Informers, my name is Roly. I write to you today to talk about the 30th anniversary of this beloved staple of gaming media we call Game Informer and ask what does it mean to you (whoever is on the podcast at the time) to be part of the magazine's history and will there be any special celebrations? Will you produce some videos or publish some articles and then pull them out of the website (wink, wink Nintendo)? I personally became a reader/fan/follower in 2011, and the last 10 years with you have been delightful! PS having a printed gaming magazine in 2021 feels special, and I hope it can continue for the next 30 years, also if you need a fighting games resident advisor, I'm here for you. Thank you for all you do! -Rolando Lopez (email)

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Saints Row

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 23, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Metroid Dread

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Far Cry 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Release Date:

October 7, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

December 7, 2018

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

