
                                          Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge
                  


  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge | New Gameplay Today




Platform
PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Publisher
Dotemu

Developer
Tribute Games

Release
June 16, 2022

Rating
Everyone 10+

While 2022 has seen plenty of gigantic hits in the video games space, there are still plenty of titles we are excited to play. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge is one of those hotly-anticipated games. We're giving you a look at the first two levels and breaking down our hands-on impressions on this episode of New Gameplay Today!

Join your hosts, Alex Stadnik and Marcus Stewart, as they take you through developer Tribute Games' latest title! In the first level, Marcus has selected his favorite turtle, Donatello, to show off the game's gorgeous pixel art and demonstrate why the purple turtle has always been a favorite.

As we continue to the second level, we switch to Raphael and go in-depth on the different character's movesets and discuss how to utilize the super attacks and the environment around the player. Of course, what would a tour of Shredder's Revenge be without a few boss fights? We're also taking down two of the game's opening big bads to round out our time with the turtles. We also answer the important questions in life, such as what iteration of the show is the best and whether or not liking Mikey is basic.

If you're excited about Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge, be sure to check out Marcus' new written preview to tide you over until the game's summer 2022 release window for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC.

Enjoy this episode of New Gameplay Today? Check out our other previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, including looks at Forspoken, Steelrising, and Cult of the Lamb! If you enjoy your previews a bit more long-form, we also have plenty of live stream archives over on our YouTube channel, featuring Halo Infinite, Mythforce, and so much more. Thank you for watching, and we hope you enjoyed today's video!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 16, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), November 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

