
  Why Marvel's Midnight Suns Is For XCOM Fans






            Developer Firaxis Games has created a name for itself in the video game industry by fostering brilliant tactical experiences in the XCOM games. Instead of following suit with a proper sequel, though, the lauded developer is setting its sights on one of the biggest brands to ever exist on planet earth.

Marvel's Midnight Suns finds Firaxis jumping into a whole new world of superheroes, card battles, and a distinct lack of cover. The new title embraces what the team exemplified with its previous work while also adding in new systems and a whole RPG story that will bring the title to more players without sacrificing the excellent gameplay the studio is known for.

That doesn't mean, however, XCOM fans will be left out in the cold. Join us for an exclusive chat with Jake Solomon, creative director at Firaxis Games, as we discuss why the studios' latest title will feel right at home for those who love their time tactically blasting aliens. That's not all, though. Solomon and the team understand Marvel's Midnight Suns will also appeal to those just entering the tactics genre, and we spend some time discussing how the RPG will be for them as well!

Those excited about Marvel's Midnight Suns don't have that long to wait. Firaxis' next adventure is scheduled to arrive in March 2022 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC!

If you've been frozen in ice for eighty years after fighting Hydra and haven't heard, our cover story this month is Marvel's Midnight Suns! Be sure to check out the hub below for our exclusive gameplay impressions, a deep-dive into who The Hunter, Lilith, and the Midnight Suns are, and another classic Rapid-Fire interview with Jake! Thanks for watching, and let us know what you thought of the video in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Midnight Suns

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), May 11, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

