
                                          I Expect You To Die
                  


  Die and Laugh In Equal Measure With This Escape The Room Game




Platform
Rift, Quest, Vive, PlayStation VR

Publisher
Oculus Studios

Developer
Schell Games

Release
December 5, 2016

Rating
Not rated

I Expect You To Die puts you in the well polished shoes of a special operative who always manages to find themselves in...tricky situations. Takings its name from the infamous quote from the James Bond film Goldfinger, IEYTD is basically an escape the room with a dash of Bond-esque espionage and more than its fair share of wacky humor.
For my Oculus Connect demo, I found myself in the driver's seat of a car that was being flown around in a cargo plane. My goal was to somehow get the car out of the plane, destroy it, and get myself to safety. Unfortunately, said car was booby-trapped by its owner and I spent my allotted half hour of demo time tripping over every trap and meeting my demise. However, that's not a bad thing, as much of IEYTD's entertainment comes from experimenting with the items in the environment. In many ways, the game is reminiscent of early point-and-click adventure games' mix of twisted logic and wacky humor. This is one of those rare games where it's just as much, if not more fun, to fail as it is to succeed.
Sure, maybe using the pistol I just acquired from the back seat to shoot out the passenger window was a bad idea since it let poison gas flood the car, but it wrestled a giggle from me nonetheless. Equally fun was actually figuring out how to solve the miniature puzzles you have to get past in order to get out of the car; for example, a laser is attached to your sun visor. It activates when it recognizes you're not the owner of the car. The secret to keeping it from killing you? Slightly scooting to the right so that the beam misses you.
There are a number of touches that make even the smallest things amusing in IEYTD. If you start doing something incorrectly, like trying to screw open a dashboard with a pocket knife, your English narrator will humorously suggest that that's not what the tool is for. Poking a smoke grenade with the knife will cause a puncture in the grenade and it will leak out its contents. Shooting the bomb you just disarmed with the gun in the backseat will cause it to explode. The game makes uses of the tools it gives its players well and I look forward to spending more time with I Expect You To Die when it releases alongside the Oculus Touch controllers.

      Products In This Article

I Expect You To Die

Platform:

Rift, Quest, Vive, PlayStation VR

Release Date:

December 5, 2016 (Rift, Vive), December 13, 2016 (PlayStation VR), May 21, 2019 (Quest)

Purchase
More Info

