
  November Cover Revealed – Dreams






            With LittleBigPlanet, Media Molecule built its reputation on giving players a toolset to make zany, memorable levels that caught the attention of both creators and users everywhere. With Dreams, the developer takes things to the next level with an accessible, creative suite that allows players to create nearly any game they envision alongside a social space for collaborating with other users and sharing their creations with the greater world. We recently took a trip to Guilford, England to see if Dreams could live up to such ridiculous ambitions.

Our November issue chronicles the sights and sounds we saw (and made) in Dreams and outlines why we came away believing in the promise of Media Molecule’s bold vision. We have exclusive details on the game’s story mode, tools, and much more. Starting this week we’ll also have exclusive online content to support the story, including features, interviews, and gameplay footage.

The November issue also has a ridiculous amount of great features to check out as well. We have 10 pages dedicated to running down our five incredible hours of hands-on gameplay with Red Dead Redemption II. We recount the captivating and surreal history of Suda 51’s Grasshopper Manufacture as well as a chronicle of how Dead Space was born 10 years ago. Within these pages, you’ll also find previews on Darksiders III, Biomutant, and Anthem.

Get a sneak peek at the exclusive month of coverage in the video below.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle later this week. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

Click on the banner below to visit our coverage hub for Dreams and check back throughout the month for new, exciting stories and info.

      Products In This Article

Dreams

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

February 14, 2020

Purchase
More Info

