
  A Dragon's Dogma 2 Update Is Coming In The "Near Future" But Won't Improve Frame Rates






            Last week, Dragon's Dogma 2 was released to critical acclaim followed by intense fan backlash. While the game itself is enjoyable to most, it launched with microtransactions that provide in-game currency, as well as a litany of technical issues for some players. Today, Capcom outlined some of its plans to update the game in the "near future," but specifically notes that improvements to frame rate will come in later patches. That said, these quick fixes are still useful.

Click to enlarge

In addition to general text and bug fixes, there are a few significant quality-of-life improvements. For starters, the Pawn Guild now sells a lot more "Art of Metamorphosis" items, which is how you can change the appearance of a character or pawn after they've already been created. If you're dissatisfied with their appearance mid-game or want to add some changes for role-playing reasons, like a scar or tattoo, this will make that much easier. The Pawn Guild previously only sold two at a time – now, there will be 99.

It also makes it easier to obtain a house, which has significant implications for the flow of the game. The longer you go without staying at an inn or campsite, the more your maximum health deteriorates when taking damage. It's also how you gain the items your pawn might have obtained while adventuring with other players. Early in the game, the main hurdle here is the cost – sleeping in an inn requires 1500 to 2000 gold, while staying at a campsite requires camping kits. However, once you have a permanent dwelling, you can rest and fully heal for free. Making it available earlier in the game will make that early struggle a little easier.

Other than that, consoles will get some graphics adjustment settings (though these are what Capcom says won't significantly impact frame rates), while Steam users get improved quality when DLSS Super Resolution is on, along with a fix for certain low-quality models. 

For more Dragon's Dogma 2, check out our stream archive, where we played the opening hour, then listen to the latest episode of the GI Show.

Have you run into performance issues in Dragon's Dogma 2? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons.

Email
Twitter

