
  Ace Attorney Investigations Collection Announced, Launches September






            In recent years, Capcom has really shown its dedication to the Ace Attorney series by bringing the games to modern consoles. The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles brought two games to the West for the first time, while the Apollo Justice Ace Attorney Trilogy gave the newest games in the series a facelift. Today, with the announcement of Ace Attorney Investigations Collection, Capcom is not just bringing another Japan-only release to Western gamers, but it's also made the entire library of Ace Attorney games available on modern consoles.

The Investigations games follow Miles Edgeworth, an antagonist turned reluctant ally from the original trilogy of Phoenix Wright games. Instead of defending suspects in court, Edgeworth is a prosecutor, so it's up to him to build a case against the main suspects. By collecting evidence and completing logic puzzles, he and the lovable Detective Gumshoe solve mysteries and serve justice. While the first game launched in the States as a DS title, the second never officially made it over, so this is many players' first chance to see its story.

Like other Ace Attorney collections, the Ace Attorney Investigations Collection will have a number of modes and settings for fans to appreciate the art and music of the original game. While it includes new "hand-drawn character visuals" for a more modern look, it also allows players to switch to classic pixel sprites if they prefer the look of the original. Meanwhile, the gallery includes character art, a photo album, and music from the game, including orchestral arrangements.

While the announcement was made during the Nintendo Direct, Ace Attorney Investigations collection is far from a console exclusive – the two-game collection will launch on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on September 6.

      Products In This Article

Ace Attorney Investigations Collection

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

