
  Assassin's Creed Mirage Is Coming Out A Week Early






            Assassin's Creed Mirage is one of the most anticipated games of 2023, and after years of rumors and delays, its release date is still just out of reach. However, that wait has been shortened just a little; today, Ubisoft revealed that the game has gone gold, and since they're done ahead of schedule, it will now come out on October 5th, a week earlier than previously announced.

Assassin's Creed Mirage has gone gold and is coming out a week early! 📀

On behalf of the entire team, we can't wait for you to explore 9th Century Baghdad with Basim.

Your journey now starts on October 5. Save the new date! #AssassinsCreed pic.twitter.com/eWAZttvjIX
— Assassin's Creed (@assassinscreed) August 14, 2023

The game follows Basim Ibn Ishaq, an Assassin previously introduced as a supporting character in 2020's Assassin's Creed Valhalla. While the series was traditionally about stealth-focused combat in dense cities, more recent entries have put the player into more open-world environments and incorporated RPG mechanics. Mirage is a return to that classic formula of old, complete with the iconic white hood, hidden blade, and parkour. Set in Baghdad, the game takes place 12 years before the events in Valhalla.

In an era where it feels like games are constantly being delayed, it's a nice change of pace when a game is moved up instead. Recently, Baldur's Gate 3 moved its PC release up to avoid competing with "other RPGs," which most likely refers to Starfield. Mirage's new date doesn't seem to be motivated by the desire to avoid competition, but it does pull it a little ahead of the other huge games releasing in October, specifically Marvel's Spider-Man 2 and Super Mario Bros. Wonder, which both come out on October 20.

How do you feel about developers advancing their release dates? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Mirage

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS

Release Date:

October 5, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), 2024 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons.

Email
Twitter

