
  Baldur's Gate 3 Re-Rolls Initiative, Advancing PC Release Date But Delaying PS5






            While game delays have become commonplace, the opposite is extremely rare. Today, we learned Baldur's Gate 3 is somehow doing both at the same time. Initially planned for August 31, developer Larian Studios is advancing the PC release date to August 3 while delaying the PS5 version to September 6. According to the most recent community update, the change was done to prioritize release in order of platform readiness. More specifically, the team needed a little more time to get the PS5 version up to 60 frames per second.

"The PlayStation 5 version will be released roughly a week later than its originally scheduled date of August 31st," the community update reads. "Baldur’s Gate 3 is targeting 60 frames-per-second and we’re close to achieving that on the platform but need a bit more extra time. We don’t want to compromise on quality, and feel it would be a shame to downscale to 30fps or make other compromises to hit an arbitrary date."

Meanwhile, the PC version has moved up a whopping four weeks. Larian says, "This means the PC version of Baldur’s Gate 3 will be released at a time where you’ll have more time to play it," likely in reference to the release of Starfield, Bethesda's massive upcoming open-world RPG. By releasing their game over a month earlier, it's a little less likely that gamers would have to choose one or the other to devote their time to.

The community update also casts a light cantrip on some of the features coming to the full game, including new spells, the addition of feats, the Half-Orc and Dragonborn races, the monk class, and a huge line-up of new subclasses, which you can see listed below.

For more Baldur's Gate 3, check out its Summer Game Fest trailer that revealed Jason Issacs' role in the game.

      Products In This Article

Baldur's Gate 3

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

August 3, 2023 (PC), September 6, 2023 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

