
  Bethesda Gives A Small Update On The Elder Scrolls 6






            If you've been paying attention to our Game Gauntlet, a bracket where our readers decide the best game of all time, you might have noticed one contender has been an unstoppable force – The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. It nuked Fallout 3, omnislashed Final Fantasy VII, felled Elden Ring (without using spirit ashes), and survived the hordes of The Last of Us. Skyrim was a groundbreaking open-world adventure when it was first released, and fans clearly have plenty of love for it in the 13 years since then and now, so it's no surprise the gaming community has been clamoring for news about a sequel for years now. Luckily, we do have a minor update for fans who need something to tide them over just a little longer.

Thirty years ago, The Elder Scrolls series began with The Elder Scrolls: Arena, so Bethesda put together a little celebratory post touring through each game in the franchise. The post, which you can read in its entirety below, ends with a small section about the highly anticipated next entry.

The relevant section says, "Last but not least, yes, we are in development on the next chapter – The Elder Scrolls VI. Even now, returning to Tamriel and playing early builds has us filled with the same joy, excitement, and promise of adventure."

There's really not much to go on, but as Kotaku points out, this does confirm that the series will stay on the continent of Tamriel rather than venturing off to other areas in the fantasy world, along with the fact that the game is at least in a playable state. That said, there's no telling how far off from release it still is; the last we heard was from Microsoft's private documents that were leaked during its acquisition of Activision Blizzard, which put the release date somewhere 2026 or later.

For more Bethesda, check out the news about The Elder Scrolls' newest spin-off,  read our Starfield review, and see which Xbox games are coming to other platforms.

      Products In This Article

The Elder Scrolls VI

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons.

Email
Twitter

