
  Billie Eilish Is Headlining Fortnite Festival Season 3






            With the introduction of Fortnite Festival, Epic's rhythm game within the chart-topping Battle Royale, there's more incentive than ever for musicians to have their likenesses added to the game. The latest of these artists is Billie Eilish, who announced her collaboration with the game on social media earlier today.

Fortnite Festival Main Stage: 4.23.24 pic.twitter.com/dxaQBsqD4A
— billie eilish (@billieeilish) April 22, 2024

Eilish is not just getting a skin added to the game (like Eminem, for example), she's the next headliner for Fortnite Festival's main stage event, which will start tomorrow, April 23. This includes a set of artist-specific rotating songs players can compete for high scores in, as well as unlockable skins, songs, instruments, and other cosmetics, though unlocking all of these requires the purchase of the pricey 1,800 V-Buck Festival Pass. Previous headliners were The Weeknd and Lady Gaga.

Eilish recently made headlines for winning a Grammy, Golden Globe, and Oscar for "What Was I Made For" from the Barbie movie, which is a task she's now accomplished twice. Even more recently, she announced her upcoming album Hit Me Hard And Soft, which is likely her main marketing incentive for appearing in the game. For more Fortnite, check out the current Avatar: The Last Airbender crossover and read about the upcoming Star Wars event.

Will you be buying Eilish's festival pass? Which artist do you want to see in Fortnite next? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons.

Email
Twitter

