
  Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 Will Be Featured At Xbox's Summer Showcase






            When Xbox revealed the date of its summer showcase, it included a mysterious teaser. Immediately following the presentation, there will be a second livestream to highlight an upcoming game in a "beloved" series. Today, the subject of that showcase has been revealed, and surprising no one, it's a new Call of Duty game.

Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 is a title that might confuse some, seeing as there technically isn't a game titled Black Ops 5. This is because the fifth entry of the sub-series, which launched in 2021, was Black Ops Cold War, temporarily removing the numbered naming convention. The news was announced on social media, but was accompanied by a teaser on YouTube that seems to hint at the events of the game's campaign.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

The 40-second clip follows a group of people sneaking onto the top of Mount Rushmore, where they place blindfolds over the eyes of the presidents carved into the mountainside. The first three blindfolds read, "The truth lies," while the fourth features a three-headed wolf logo that was used in the initial redacted teaser of the game.

The game will be revealed in full during a presentation on Saturday, June 9, immediately following the Xbox showcase that will start at 10 AM PT/ 1 PM ET. Microsoft is reportedly debating on whether or not the launch the game on Game Pass.

What are you hoping to see from the newest Call of Duty? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Black Ops 6

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

