
  Check Out The First Images From The Live-Action Borderlands Movie






            We're in a bit of a live-action video game adaptation golden age right now. Not every project is a hit, but there have been enough success stories that learning about a new film or TV show in the works doesn't instantly fill fans with dread. The latest example of that growing trend is the live-action Borderlands movie, which we just got our first official looks at, thanks to People.

Click to enlarge

This image shows the main line-up of the movie. Going clockwise, starting from the top left, Ariana Greenblatt is Tiny Tina, Florian Munteanu is Krieg, Jamie Lee Curtis is Tannis, Jack Black is the voice of Claptrap, Kevin Hart is Roland, and Cate Blanchett takes the lead role as Lilith. You can see a head-on image of her character below.

Click to enlarge

This film has been in the works for a while now, but outside of these images, there's not much new information. If you haven't seen it yet (or just need a refresher, since it's been over two years), here's the official synopsis from a 2021 press release:

Lilith (Blanchett), an infamous outlaw with a mysterious past, reluctantly returns to her home planet of Pandora to find the missing daughter of the universe’s most powerful S.O.B., Atlas (Ramirez). Lilith forms an alliance with an unexpected team – Roland (Hart), a former elite mercenary, now desperate for redemption; Tiny Tina (Greenblatt), a feral pre-teen demolitionist; Krieg (Munteanu), Tina’s musclebound, rhetorically challenged protector; Tannis (Curtis), the scientist with a tenuous grip on sanity; and Claptrap (Black), a persistently wiseass robot. These unlikely heroes must battle alien monsters and dangerous bandits to find and protect the missing girl, who may hold the key to unimaginable power. The fate of the universe could be in their hands – but they’ll be fighting for something more: each other.

IGN also shared the movie's first official poster.

Here's the exclusive new poster for the @BorderlandsFilm!
Read what director @eliroth and Gearbox founder Randy Pitchford (@DuvalMagic) had to tell us about bringing the classic looter shooter game to the big screen: https://t.co/NNw83A3xuX #BorderlandsMovie #IGNFanFest pic.twitter.com/TBnRH1tsdn
— IGN (@IGN) February 20, 2024

Borderlands, directed by actor/director Eli Roth, hits theaters August 9.

What do you think of these new images? Are you excited for the movie? Let us know in the comments!

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

