
  Fallout Is Coming To Fortnite






            It's a great time to be a Fallout fan, thanks to its excellent Amazon Prime series and the next-gen update for Fallout 4. But it seems like the fallout from this recent boom in popularity hasn't died down quite yet. Thanks to a teaser shared on Fortnite's official social media pages, we know that Fallout will be coming to Fortnite pretty soon

pic.twitter.com/AKjFXVnHST
— Fortnite (@FortniteGame) May 17, 2024

The teaser image shows power armor in a cloud of orange dust, accompanied by what appears to be some sort of industrial building. Other than that, there's not much to go on, but we can make educated guesses. For one, Fortnite's current season will end on May 24, so this is the perfect time to tease the skins that might be coming in the next battle pass. And if it's anything like the recent Avatar: The Last Airbender and Star Wars crossovers, we might see Fallout-themed mechanics or areas appear on the battle royale map itself.

It will almost certainly involve some sort of cosmetic pack as well, which could include characters from the games, the Amazon Prime show, or both. Thanks to the teaser, we know power armor will be making an appearance, but it's unclear whether it will be an item to equip in-game or a skin that can be unlocked or purchased.

For more Fortnite news, read about its recent crossover with Billie Eilish, its decision to allow players to block certain emotes, and its huge and mysterious collaboration with Disney.

What are you hoping to see included in this crossover? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

