
  Fallout 4 Gets A Next-Gen Update Today – Here's What To Expect






            The Fallout franchise is in the midst of a resurgence lately, thanks to the live-action series adaptation on Amazon Prime (which is good, by the way). Even though it's been almost a decade since its release, Fallout 4 has rocketed to the top of sales charts like a mushroom cloud into the atmosphere, which makes today's update perfectly timed: Fallout 4 is finally getting a proper next-gen update.

ICYMI: The Fallout 4 free next-gen update lands on consoles and PC April 25th! https://t.co/lFnD4X5Q3o
📺 Performance and Quality Mode
🛠️ Stability improvements and fixes
💻 PC widescreen support
🎮 Steam Deck Verified
🎁 Free Creation Club Content pic.twitter.com/JrJDqdn9tW
— Bethesda Game Studios (@BethesdaStudios) April 19, 2024

The update brings major technical upgrades to console players. The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S now get their own native versions of the game rather than relying on running applications made for older consoles. These new apps come with a Performance Mode, which targets 60 fps with 4k resolution and standard graphics settings, as well as a Quality Mode, which plays at 30 fps with a 4k resolution and graphics set to ultra. The notes also clarify that, when connected to a 120 Hz display, Quality Mode will target 40 fps, and when connected to a 1440p display, the game will run at 60 fps with a 1440p resolution regardless of rendering mode.

PC players aren't left out, either. In addition to launching on the Epic Store, the game will also support widescreen and ultra-widescreen for those who have them. Steam players will also be happy to hear that the game is now officially Steam Deck Verified, so you can take it on the go. That said, the update is not yet available on GOG, but will be sometime soon. "We will let you know as soon as we can," the patch notes read.

In addition to a number of bug fixes across PC and console, the update provides all players with nine free Creation Club items. You can read the patch notes in their entirety here. For more Fallout, check out the trailer for the (now delayed) Fallout 4 London mod, get ready for season 2 of the TV series, and read our review of Fallout 4, which we called "one of the most rewarding (and time-consuming) experiences in gaming."

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), April 25, 2024 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

