
  Fallout Show Nominated For 16 Emmy Awards, Including Best Actor For Walton Goggins






            Fallout, a TV adaptation of the popular post-apocalyptic video game series, was released on Amazon Prime this past April. Video game adaptations can be a bit of a mixed bag sometimes, but in this case, fans and critics alike (us included) loved its characters, world-building, and its overall take on the Fallout universe. It should come as no surprise, then, that the show has been nominated in numerous categories at the 2024 Emmy Awards.

Fallout was nominated in 16 categories, but two of them are particularly exciting. First, the show is one of eight nominees for Outstanding Drama Series, ranking it among other big shows of 2024, like Shōgun, which currently leads the pack with 25 nominations. Secondly, Walton Goggins was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor In A Drama Series for his portrayal of The Ghoul. This is his second Emmy nomination – the first being for Supporting Actor on the show Justified back in 2011.

Here's a full list of the show's nominations:

Outstanding Fantasy/Sci-Fi Costumes

Outstanding Stunt Coordination For Drama Programming

Outstanding Production Design For A Narrative Period Or Fantasy Program (One Hour Or More)

Outstanding Picture Editing For A Drama Series

Outstanding Picture Editing For A Drama Series

Outstanding Main Title Design

Outstanding Period Or Fantasy/Sci-Fi Makeup (Non-Prosthetic)

Outstanding Prosthetic Makeup

Outstanding Lead Actor In A Drama Series

Outstanding Drama Series

Outstanding Sound Editing For A Comedy Or Drama Series (One Hour)

Outstanding Sound Mixing For A Comedy Or Drama Series (One Hour)

Outstanding Special Visual Effects In A Season Or A Movie

Outstanding Stunt Performance

Outstanding Writing For A Drama Series

Outstanding Music Supervision

Last year's Emmy Awards had video game representation as well, with HBO's The Last of Us, which earned a total of eight awards. Whether or not Fallout manages to reach that level of prestige, it's already been renewed for a season 2, so fans of the series can look forward to a return to the wasteland sometime soon. To see all of this year's Emmy nominations, click here.

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

