
  Fortnite's Next Star Wars Crossover Will Span Lego, Festival, and Battle Royale Modes






            Despite currently being in the midst of a crossover event with Avatar: The Last Airbender, Fortnite is teasing an upcoming event with a returning collaborator: Star Wars. The details have yet to be disclosed, but attentive fans of the science fiction juggernaut will notice something about the start date right away. The event is set to take place on Friday, May 3. The following day, May 4th, is known to many as Star Wars Day.

We have a good feeling about this...Star Wars is returning to #Fortnite. pic.twitter.com/6MCkDkolNb
— Star Wars (@starwars) April 15, 2024

The most newsworthy piece of info here, however, is the fact that the teaser indicates collaborations across several of Fortnite's new modes. This includes the classic battle Royale mode, the survival/crafting Lego mode, and the rhythm Festival mode, though Rocket Racing was notably excluded. Crossovers between Fortnite and other IPs usually just include cosmetic bundles, but this seems to imply that it will provide content for three different areas of the game.

The current Elements event pass technically includes a Lego variant skin as well as a guitar for Festival mode, so this Star Wars event could be as simple as that, but it's not unreasonable to speculate that Star Wars is a big enough property to warrant a larger scale crossover event. That said, this is just speculation.

Previous Star Wars crossovers included a Darth Vader boss battle, lightsabers, blasters, and force abilities, as well as a huge roster of skins spanning the movies and shows. Most recently, Ahsoka joined the fray as a part of the Chapter 4 Season 4 battle pass. 

If you're interested in more Star Wars video games, you're in luck – we just launched our latest cover story, which features an exclusive look at Star Wars Outlaws. We've also got a hands-on preview, a video interview with the developers, and an entire hub devoted to this month's coverage of the game.

What are you hoping to see from the upcoming Fortnite x Star Wars crossover? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons.

Email
Twitter

