
  Microsoft Is Removing Dozens Of Games From The Xbox 360 Marketplace In February






            Starting Tuesday, February 7th, dozens of games will be unable to purchase on the Xbox 360 Marketplace. The list varies by country and includes popular titles like Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Left 4 Dead, and Limbo. In the United States, there are 46 games total. To see the full list for the US and other countries, the Xbox Support page has every list available here. While these games will no longer be purchasable, they'll still be playable and downloadable as long as you buy them before the deadline. Here's a list of the games leaving the marketplace in the US:

Aegis Wing
Assassin's Creed Brotherhood
Assassin's Creed III
Assassin's Creed IV
Assassin's Creed Liberation HD
Blood of the Werewolf
Blue Dragon
Breakdown
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare
Call of Duty: Ghosts
Castle Crashers
Cloning Clyde
Counter-Strike: GO
Dark Souls 
Darksiders II
Daytona USA
Defense Grid
Eets: Chowdown
Far Cry 2
Final Fight: DblImpact
Iron Brigade
Jeremy McGrath's Offroad
Jet Set Radio
Left 4 Dead
Left 4 Dead 2
Limbo
Lost Odyssey
Mass Effect 2
Monopoly Deal
Mutant Blobs Attack
N+
Outpost Kaloki X
Peggle 2
Phantom Breaker: Battle Grounds
Prince of Persia
R.U.S.E.
Sega Vintage Collection: Alex Kidd & Co.
Skate 2
South Park: The Stick of Truth
Spelunky
Splinter Cell Conviction
Star Wars Battlefront
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II
The Orange Box
The Raven Episode 1
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings

While these games will no longer be accessible on the 360, Microsoft has clarified in a statement to Gematsu that they'll still be available on the Xbox One and Series X/S stores.  Additionally, many of these games have received ports, remasters, or other releases on modern consoles, so losing access to a 360 version isn't necessarily the end of the world. Still, if you wanted to grab some of these games digitally on your 360, you've got until Februrary 7.

As we get further from the advent of digital game downloads, more and more games have become inaccessible. The first example came with the closing of the Wii Shop channel back in 2019, soon to be followed by the shutdown of the Wii U and 3DS stores a few months from now. In extremely recent news, today, Konami announced plans to make their social deduction game Crimesight completely unplayable by May.

Do you still play games on your Xbox 360? Let us know in the comments!

