
  Persona 3 Reload Is The Fastest Selling Atlus Title Of All Time






            Persona 3 Reload is finally here, and fans of the series have welcomed it with open arms, happily becoming reacquainted with the high schoolers who get magical powers from a shot to the head. Speaking of which, Persona 3 Reload has shot to the head of Atlus's ranking of fastest-selling games, shipping over a million copies worldwide in its first week.

Persona 3 Reload sold 1,000,000 copies worldwide within its first week, becoming the fastest selling game in ATLUS history! 🎉

A huge thank you to our community for your incredible support! We look forward to breaking more records with you. 💙 pic.twitter.com/C2abDAwCDs
— Official ATLUS West (@Atlus_West) February 8, 2024

Originally released on the PlayStation 2, Persona 3 was the first game in its series to define its modern formula, combining social responsibilities with dungeon crawling and a lengthy, emotional story. It's been re-released multiple times and was even ported to modern consoles last year, but even the upgraded versions don't hold a candle to the mind-bending masterpiece that is Persona 5 Royal. Persona 3 Reload closes that gap, however, introducing overhauled visuals and mechanics to bring the game that started it all up to the level of quality fans of the series have come to expect. If the sales numbers and our glowing review are any indication, the upgrade has been well worth the wait.

To put these numbers in context, here are some other games that have recently reached comparable significant milestones: Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth shipped 1 million copies as of Feb 1, Nintendo's quarterly report revealed Tears of the Kingdom has sold 20 million copies, and viral hit Palworld continues to smash record after record.

Have you checked out Persona 3 Reload yet? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Persona 3 Reload

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

