
  Phil Spencer Teases "Future Of Xbox" Event Next Week






            Microsoft had a strong start to 2024 thanks to their Developer Direct Showcase, but it sounds like we'll get even more information on what the gaming giant is up to very soon. Head of Xbox Phil Spencer gathered the attention of gamers everywhere this afternoon with a post announcing an upcoming "business update event." You can see the post for yourself below.

We're listening and we hear you. We've been planning a business update event for next week, where we look forward to sharing more details with you about our vision for the future of Xbox. Stay tuned.
— Phil Spencer (@XboxP3) February 5, 2024

We're listening and we hear you. We've been planning a business update event for next week, where we look forward to sharing more details with you about our vision for the future of Xbox. Stay tuned.

The post itself doesn't have any concrete details on what to expect, but there's a likely subject. Just this morning, The Verge reported that Indiana Jones and The Great Circle, one of Xbox's biggest first-party games of the year, might be headed to PlayStation after a short exclusivity window. Combined with other recent rumors, like Hi-Fi Rush and Starfield coming to other platforms, it seems like Xbox might be loosening its grip on its exclusive games. That said, Spencer didn't give us any idea as to what the announcement would be about, so we'll have to wait until next week to know for sure.

For more on Xbox's plans for the coming year, check out some of the reveals from the Developer Direct, like Indiana Jones and the Great Circle, Visions of Mana, and Avowed.

What do you think Xbox will announce next week? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Indiana Jones and the Great Circle

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

