
  PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo, And Steam Year In Reviews Are Now Live






            Update, 12/18/2023

Over the last week, PlayStation, Xbox, and Nintendo have each released their annual player year-in-reviews, letting users find out exactly how much time they spent engaged with each platform, the games they played most, and more. PC players on Steam can now do the same, as Valve has released its year in review. 

You can access the review here (you'll need to sign into your Steam account, of course). You'll find the expected stats, such as the top batch of games you spent the most time playing, your average playtime per month, and even metrics like time spent playing on a mouse/keyboard versus a controller. In a nice bit of convenience, you can export your stats graphic in different sizes to fit whatever social media site you plan on sharing it on. Here's what the tall version looks like. 

Have fun, and let us know what your most surprising (or alarming) stat is in the comments below!

Update, 12/13/2023:

Yesterday, PlayStation and Xbox released yearly video game retrospectives for individual players, highlighting how much PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S they played in 2023, which games they played most, and more. Now, a day later, Nintendo has released its 2023 Year In Review feature. 

Look back at all the fun you had with #NintendoSwitch games in 2023 with a personalized wrap-up! You can see what you played most, choose your favorite game of the year, and share your stats with friends.
See your #NintendoSwitch2023 Year in Review here: https://t.co/5VR8vnCX1I pic.twitter.com/yV3TkR11JV
— Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) December 13, 2023

Sign in to your Nintendo account and enjoy the look back at your year of Switch gaming, and let us know what your most-played Switch game was in 2023 in the comments below. 

The original story continues below...

Update, 12/12/2023:

Following Sony's lead, Microsoft has published its yearly retrospective as well, allowing Xbox and PlayStation fans alike to take a look back at the games they played this year. You can check out the Xbox Year In Review right here. For an idea of what to expect, here are some of my stats:

The original story continues below...

When the year comes to a close, many spend time reflecting on the past 12 months of their lives, the decisions they made, and the places they went. In recent years, companies like Spotify have capitalized on this tradition, turning it into their Wrapped celebration, which has users all over the world sharing their stats, blurring the lines between an internet trend and a viral marketing campaign. It's no surprise that other companies would want to jump on that bandwagon, and one of the main participants is Sony, with their annual PlayStation Wrap-Up. You can check out this year's version right here.

Those who participate will get a quick tour through their 2023 on PlayStation, including their total hours played, their top games, and even which controller they used most often. You can see some of my stats below – including how much time I spent revisiting Ezio's games for an Assassin's Creed retrospective earlier this year.

PlayStation has had a good 2023. Between Spider-Man 2's critical success, the generally well-received launch of Final Fantasy XVI as a console exclusive, and new DLC modes coming to The Last of Us: Part II and God of War: Ragnarök, it's finished the year strongly. This was follows their recent release of the PlayStation Portal – you can read out thoughts on the device here.

What was your most played game of the year? Let us know in the comments!

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

