
  Resident Evil 4 Remake Is Coming To Apple Devices In December






            At Apple's keynote event last September, everyone expected them to announce the new iPhone, but nobody expected them to announce that multiple Resident Evil games would be headed to the device. Resident Evil Village hit the App Store just last week, and today, Capcom has let us know when Resident Evil 4 Remake is coming to the platform: December 20. You can see some screenshots from the Apple port below. 

The game won't be available to all iPhone owners, however. Resident Evil 4 Remake will only be available on the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max, meaning you'll have to grab the newest product in order to play this game on the go. That said, it will also be available on iPads and Macs with the M1 chip or later. If you're a diehard Apple fan and have multiple RE4 Remake compatible products, you'll be happy to know that the game also supports cross-progression between Apple devices, so you can start a save file on your Mac at home and pick it up on your phone when you're on the go.

The game is available for pre-order on the App Store now, but players will be able to start the game for free before committing to a full purchase. Its recently released DLC, Separate Ways, will launch alongside it as well. While we haven't been able to go hands-on with this version of the game quite yet, we like Resident Evil 4 Remake quite a lot: you can read our review for it right here.

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 4 (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

March 24, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), December 20, 2023 (Mac, iOS), December 8, 2023 (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

