
  Stardew Valley 1.6 Patch Drops Today – Here's What To Expect






            Update, 3/19/24:

The 1.6 Patch is now live, and it's a doozy. If you want to read the patch notes in their entirety, which includes new content, balance updates, visual improvements, and more, you can do that right here.

The original story continues below...

Eight years after its official launch, Stardew Valley remains one of the most popular games on the market right now, which is no surprise; whether you're marrying a neighbor, farming crops, or toiling away in the mines, it's a game with something for everyone. Its creator, solo developer ConcernedApe, has updated it with plenty of free patches over the years, adding multiplayer, new farm types, and more, but when he moved on to work on his next game, Haunted Chocolatier, the Stardew updates came to an end. That is, until today.

1.6 was announced almost a year ago and promises to add a number of new features, including hats on pets and the highly coveted iridium scythe. Here's an image of some of the planned updates from last September.

As the release draws closer, ConcernedApe has also teased smaller updates as well, leaving small patch notes on his X account each day. The patch will fix the sword's downward hitbox, make sure harvesting is the same speed walking right-to-left as left-to-right, and pickles, jellies, juices, and wines will be colored to match their fruit or vegetable of origin. Finally, you can drink mayonnaise. Yeah, you read that right.

Some more updates are included as images below.

In addition to the new content, ConcernedApe says he wanted to update the game to make modding "easier and more powerful." On that note, he recently announced that many existing mods are already updated for the new version, though he recommends trying the patch without mods first. There will also be an option to keep your game in the 1.5.6 patch if you don't want any of the changes.

Stardew Valley's 1.6 patch launches later today on PC, with mobile and console updates coming sometime in the future.

Will you be jumping back into Stardew Valley? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Stardew Valley

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation Vita, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

February 26, 2016 (PC), December 13, 2016 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), October 5, 2017 (Switch), May 22, 2018 (PlayStation Vita), October 24, 2018 (iOS), March 14, 2019 (Android)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

