
  Stray Gods: Orpheus Gives The Role-Playing Musical A DLC Encore






            Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical, a creative and ambitious attempt to fuse musical theatre with interactive fiction, launched last August, but that's not the last time fans will get to experience that modern take on Greek myth. Announced today at LudoNarraCon, the game is getting DLC called Stray Gods: Orpheus, which follows the titular character through a new adventure. Check out the reveal trailer below.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Orpheus (played by Rent star Anthony Rapp) appeared in the base game, but only briefly, so this expansion will give players a better idea of his backstory and personality. The trailer also features Hermes (played by Erika Ishii), though their exact role in the DLC isn't clarified. The experience is roughly two hours long with six new interactive tracks and features some returning songwriters, including Austin Wintory, Simon Hall, and Montaigne, but also adds comedic musician Tom Cardy to the mix.

As for the plot, the following excerpt from a press release explains what to expect. "When the curtain has fallen and the show is over, who do you go home as?" it reads. "Choose to reject, embrace, or rewrite the stories the world expects of you. Is the mortal world ready for the return of Ancient Greece’s most infamous bard?"

Stray Gods: Orpheus hits PC on June 27, with a console release date "coming soon." For more Stray Gods, check out our feature on how it was made. For more Greek mythology, visit our Hades II coverage hub for this month's exclusive coverage.

      Products In This Article

Stray Gods: The Roleplaying Musical

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

