
  Switch 2 Allegedly Launches This September, According To An AI Company's Press Release 






            There are few things the internet is hungrier for than news about the Switch successor. With relative silence from Nintendo, folks have been left to grasp at straws and theorize what it will look like, how it will be played, and when it will be released. Today, thanks to Digital Trends, we might have an answer to that last question, and it came from a rather odd place.

Back in the day, GameShark was known for making cheat code cartridges in video games. You could plug it into your system, download cheat codes, and use them to become the master of games on your N64, PlayStation, or Game Boy. However, in recent years, the company has decided to take a turn in the direction of the company. Renamed "AI Shark," it's now a software-agnostic program designed to provide "personalized hints and assistance that keep up with fast-paced, competitive gaming." What does any of this have to do with the Switch 2? It's all in one sentence at the end of the first paragraph of their press release. 

"The official launch is planned to coincide with the Nintendo Switch 2 in September 2024."

To be clear, Nintendo has offered no official confirmation that this is an accurate launch window, and there are myriad reasons to doubt the validity of the claim. Bloomberg's Jason Schreier reports that AI Shark is simply guessing at the Switch console's release date. Regardless, it is an odd statement to make in an official press release, and it will be very interesting to see Nintendo's response, assuming it issues one.

For more Nintendo Switch, check out our episode of All Things Nintendo where we list our most anticipated Switch games, and then read up on how Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown runs on the console.

<br/>

[Source: Digital Trends]

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

