
  The Tesla Cybertruck Will Be Added To Fortnite Tomorrow






            On an almost weekly basis, Fortnite announces new crossover events, adding characters to its Battle Royale, Lego, and Festival modes. Whether it's a fictional character like Jack Sparrow or a real person like Ariana Grande, it's hard to find a corner of pop culture the game hasn't touched. These crossovers, however, are almost always exclusive to characters, but Fortnite players don't always have to traverse the Battle Royale map on foot – there are vehicles as well. Today's crossover comes in the form of a particularly polygonal vehicle: Tesla's Cybertruck.

Pulls ♾️

Catch a ride in the @tesla Cybertruck in Fortnite tomorrow! pic.twitter.com/CA8xuYQreS
— Fortnite (@FortniteGame) July 22, 2024

For the unfamiliar, the Cybertruck is one of Tesla's latest electric vehicles, a futuristic-looking pickup truck with a distinct shape and stainless steel exterior. It's a vehicle that, quite frankly, always looked like it belonged in a video game, both because of its angular aesthetic and the word "cyber" in its name.

It's unclear exactly how the truck will be present in Fortnite, as the trailer doesn't include any actual gameplay, but it's likely a vehicle skin that can be purchased from the in-game store. With car skins attached, whenever a player enters a vehicle, it will morph into the selected skin of their choice, and it's available in Battle Royale and Rocket Racing alike. This is purely speculation, however – it's equally possible the vehicle is introduced in some other limited-time event.

The Cybertruck will be added to Fortnite tomorrow. If you drive one, just pray your opposing players aren't wielding a steel ball.

how do you feel about the Cybertruck being added to Fortnite? what other vehicles would you like to see in the game? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

