
  The First PlayStation State of Play of 2024 Is This Wednesday






            Between Tekken 8, Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth, and the impending release of Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, 2024 is off to an explosive start, but the rest of the year is still up in the air. Luckily for PlayStation fans, Sony is pulling the curtain back on some games coming soon to its platforms this Wednesday, January 31, at 2 P.M. Pacific/5 P.M. Eastern. Check out the X announcement below.

Get ready for a new State of Play! https://t.co/KDyuY2Uvfq
Tune in on YouTube, Twitch, or TikTok this Wednesday at 2pm PT / 10pm GMT for 40 minutes covering 15+ games, including extended looks at Stellar Blade and Rise of the Ronin, plus more from talented game developers from… pic.twitter.com/MQg76iv8Tt
— PlayStation (@PlayStation) January 29, 2024

The showcase will specifically show off extended looks at Stellar Blade and Rise of the Rōnin. The former title, previously known as Project Eve, is a stylish action-adventure game that's been teased since 2019. The last we heard, it was delayed into this year, so we're due for a proper look. The latter game is the next project from Team Ninja, the developers behind the Nioh series. It's the studio's most ambitious project to date – check out our December preview here.

As for the other 13+ games, we don't have much of an idea. We know it won't include Naughty Dog's recently canceled Last of Us multiplayer spin-off, and we've gone a while without big reveals for a lot of Sony's first-party studios, so hopefully, it can shed some light on the rest of the company's 2024.

What are you hoping to see at Wednesday's State of Play? Let us know in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Stellar Blade

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

April 26, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Rise of the Rōnin

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons or petting his cats.

Email
Twitter

