
  Today's Dragon's Dogma 2 Update Makes Dragonsplague More Visible, Pawns Less Annoying






            Dragon's Dogma 2 launched a little over a month ago and has already managed to sell 2.5 million copies, but Capcom is still releasing updates to patch minor issues with the game. While a large volume of complaints have been about the lack of a performance mode, this update (like the last update) does not address that issue. However, it does aim to clean up a number of irritating errors involving the behavior of pawns, the player's AI companions.

An update for Dragon's Dogma 2 is now live on all platforms!

It includes adjustments to the dragonsplague, Pawn behavior and fixes to various issues.

See details on the official website:https://t.co/waEdG0ntSv

We will keep you posted for future updates.
— Dragon's Dogma (@DragonsDogma) April 25, 2024

For starters, this update makes it easier to detect dragonsplague, an affliction that, if untreated, can lead to devastating consequences for your pawns and your world. It's also contagious, so it's a good idea to nip it in the bud as soon as you first encounter it. When afflicted, pawns' eyes will glow red – after this update, they'll glow more noticeably. The update also causes the disease to infect pawns less frequently.

Pawns should also be a lot less annoying now, thanks to a whole slate of minor refinements to their behavior. They'll jump off cliffs less often (which is hilarious but a wild inconvenience), say some lines less often, say other lines at more appropriate times and become less likely to offer to be hired while passing by on the street. They're one of the highlights of the game, so anything done to make their constant presence more consistent is always welcome.

There are also smaller adjustments, like adding the ability to zoom in on a character's face in shops, preventing monster attacks in town from leading to the player's arrest, and other miscellaneous bug fixes. You can read the full list of updates, as well as all past updates, here.

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Charles Harte
Associate Editor
An Associate Editor at Game Informer since 2022, Charles loves games with good stories and great soundtracks. He can most often be found playing Dungeons & Dragons and petting one of his cats.

Email
Twitter

