
  Weekend Warrior – August Burns Red With The Blood Of Finished Games






August is the curtain call of summer. For our backlogs, it means leaving it all on the field before the avalanche of new titles hits in the fall. The Game Informer staff has plowed through juggernauts like Yakuza 0 and Persona 5. What are you hoping to get done this month?
Brian Shea (@BrianPShea) – Following my completion of the extremely long Persona 5 and the maddeningly difficult Sundered, I’m digging back into Yakuza 0 in hopes of finishing that as Yakuza Kiwami looms. Outside of that, I’m finally going to jump in and try out Doomfist in Overwatch ahead of the upcoming event. Also, I still need a Lugia in Pokémon Go (somehow I’m 0 for 5 on catching him), so you can bet I’ll be running to any nearby raids. Finally, I started a playthrough of Metroid: Zero Mission, so I might try and continue that as well.
Suriel Vazquez (@SurielVazquez) – I finished both Yakuza 0 and Tacoma this weekend, so I have a pretty open weekend. I’ll be doing variety of things with my free time, such as playing as Phantom Lancer in Dota 2, who I’m getting better at playing but still need work on itemizing. I’ll also be looking into playing some Troll Warlord in Dota 2, whose itemization I think I’ve got down, but I still need to work on playing him well. Finally, I’ll be playing as Monkey King in Dota 2 – with the resurgence of the character in a core role at The International this year, I’m thinking of getting in some more matches as him.
Ben Hanson (@yozetty) – Oh man, I wish I had time to play more games this weekend! Unfortunately, I’m going to a family reunion. I’ll probably play some arcade games out there though, so there’s always Darkstalkers, Robotron, and Martial Masters. You know, the best arcade games. Have a good weekend!

Doug DeLong (@DeLongDoug) – This weekend I’ll finish up Soma and then start Nioh. I may also try to get out to a movie theater; I really wanna see Dunkirk and Planet of the Apes.
Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard) – Last weekend I saw The Emoji Movie and my daughter loved it. I didn’t, but I am glad she’s happy. This weekend I will be seeing Dunkirk in IMAX, so I think I will have a much better movie going experience. I need to mow the lawn. It’s really gotten out of hand. I think my neighbors are secretly fuming. As far as video games go, I would like to finish Tacoma and dabble some more with Slime Rancher. That latter doesn’t really seem like the kind of experience I tend to seek out in video games, but I am willing to give it some more time. I also want to watch more Dragon Ball Super now that the first season is dubbed and on Blu-ray.
Imran Khan (@imranzomg) – I started Sundered, which I keep going back and forth on, though at this point I am considering waiting for a patch. I plan to make more progress in Pyre, but I honestly keep rethinking whether I should have told that dog to shave his mustache. Other than that, I am going to do my best to get an online game of Salmon Run going, as soon as I can pencil everyone in for the scheduled time and can send an embossed invitation.
Jared Koncsol (@JaredKoncsol) – This weekend I'll be finishing up ADR1FT and then I'm thinking about taking on either Yakuza 0 or Persona 5. I know I have to pick one because I still want an hour or two to sleep.
Craig Taylor (@CraigTaylor0805) – I'm currently in a video game slump. I have some stuff in my backlog but I need to motivate myself to keep going. But in the meantime, I downloaded Bayonetta since it's free on Xbox and I was having some fun with it last night. That might end up becoming my go-to game for the time being.

            .

