
  This Week In Mobile - Tombs, Thrones, and Tactics






This week's list features some big releases from Telltale Games and Harebrained Schemes as well as a number of remakes that are making their way to mobile for the first time. 

Dragon Quest IIIDeveloper: Square EnixPlatforms: iOS, AndroidPrice: $9.99 
Square Enix has wasted no time getting the third Dragon Quest game onto iOS only two months after the port of Dragon Quest II was released. Dragon Quest III is the final game in the Erdrick Trilogy that spanned the first three games. The game features the ability to build your own party of characters, whose vocations can be changed freely to fit your playstyle. 

Oddworld: Strangers WrathDeveloper: Oddworld InhabitantsPlatforms: iOSPrice: $5.99
Oddworld Inhabitants continue to remake and port the various Oddworld titles whenever they can, and it seems they have set their sights on mobile platforms as well. Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath is a mission based combination third and first person shooter that was originally released for the Xbox back in 2005. It received an HD remake in 2012 and now finds a home on iOS as well. The game features a fully configurable digital controller to help fit whatever playstyle you choose. 

Game of Thrones - A Telltale Game SeriesDeveloper: Telltale GamesPlatforms: iOSPrice: $4.99 
For their latest adventure game Telltale is taking on the fantasy book series turned television phenomenon Game of Thrones. Much like their work on The Walking Dead, Telltale is telling an all new story in the universe while still pulling from the existing canon. This time around the existing characters are much more involved, featuring likenesses and voice work from the television actors. Check out Andrew Reiner's review of episode one to hear our first impressions. 

Tomb Raider IIDeveloper: Square EnixPlatforms: iOSPrice: $1.99 
Just in time for the system's 20th anniversary, this PlayStation classic makes its way to iOS. This new version of the game features touch controls, all new areas, achievements, and The Golden Mask expansion. Pick it up now for only $2, or grab the first Tomb Raider on iOS for $1. 

Shadowrun: Dragonfall - Director's CutDeveloper: Harebrained SchemesPlatforms: iOS (iPad Only), Android (Tablets Only)Price: $8.99
Originally funded through Kickstarter, Shadowrun is a throwback to the tactical, tabletop style RPGs of the past. While Shadowrun has been out on mobile platforms for a while this new director's cut version includes the recent Dragonfall expansion. 

