
  Weekend Warrior 12/12/2014






Super Smash Bros. and Dragon Age: Inquisition are on the menu for many of our editors this weekend, as well as some smaller releases like This War of Mine and The Banner Saga. What are your gaming plans for this weekend? Let us know in the comments below! 
Dan Tack(@DanTack): Hearthstone shenanigans with Unstable Portal, maybe a Destiny raid, some World of Warcraft Highmaul raiding, and yes, finally going to dive into Dragon Age.
Matt Bertz(@MattBertz): Going to play more AC: Unity and FIFA 15 this weekend. I know what you're thinking: "You always say FIFA 15!" The thing is, as a sports fan, this goes two ways: When your team is doing well, you're excited to play the video game version, and when they are doing bad, you want to right all the wrongs of reality. Either way you're guaranteed to want to play the game during the season. Luckily for me, Manchester City are doing well in real life, so it's the former. I may also buy This War of Mine and try that out because I've been hearing good I've got one more weekend to lock down my personal Top 10 Games of 2014 list, so I'm scrambling under the gun to check out This War of Mine, Sunset Overdrive, and Wasteland 2. At the same time, Dragon Age Inquisition is just sitting there beckoning me to jump back in.about it from Dan Tack and Tim Turi.
Ben Hanson(@Yozetty): It's that time of year where I need to start locking down my top 10 games for 2014 for the February issue of Game Informer. I really need to spend more time with Far Cry 4, I'm only a handful of hours in and I'm enjoying it but I feel guilty for not finishing a game that's on my list of favorites. Other than that, I'm hoping to play some Smash Bros. and Fibbage with the interns and former intern Mike Mahardy who's visiting Minneapolis. Also, I want to introduce the new interns to the board game Avalaon. It's a bit of a tradition around these parts. Have a good weekend!
Jeff Marchiafava(@GIJeffM): My gaming time this weekend will be devoted to trying out some last-minute contenders for my personal top 10 GotY list. They include South Park: The Stick of Truth (which came out forever ago, but hey, I’ve been busy!), Far Cry 4 (which I’m guessing will easily nab a spot), and Dragon Age: Inquisition (which is on the list, but I’m not sure what spot). Chances are I’ll just get stuck playing one of them and ignoring the other two, but that’s probably a good indication of what needs to be on my list and what doesn’t!
Jeff Cork(@GIJeff): I'm going to take a shotgun approach to this weekend's gaming setlist. I need to play more – deep breath – Dragon Age: Inquisition, The Evil Within, Wolfenstein, Geometry Wars 3: Dimensions, South Park: The Stick of Truth, The Crew, and probably a bunch of other stuff I'm overlooking. Also, Smash. Always, Smash. 
Matt Kato(@MattKato): Going to play more AC: Unity and FIFA 15 this weekend. I know what you're thinking: "You always say FIFA 15!" The thing is, as a sports fan, this goes two ways: When your team is doing well, you're excited to play the video game version, and when they are doing bad, you want to right all the wrongs of reality. Either way you're guaranteed to want to play the game during the season. Luckily for me, Manchester City are doing well in real life, so it's the former. I may also buy This War of Mine and try that out because I've been hearing good things about it from Dan Tack and Tim Turi.
Wade Wojcik(@WadeWojcik): I’ve got a Super Smash Wii U tourny on Saturday to train for, and hopefully I can reach level 30 in Destiny before Monday. So far I’m really digging the first expansion.
Andrew Reiner(@Andrew_Reiner): I'm continuing my Dragon Age conquest this weekend, hoping to reach the endgame. I also have a few more Top 50 prospects to dive into, the first being Banner Saga. Movie watching for the weekend consists of Guardians of the Galaxy and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
Jason Pfitzer(@JasonPfitzer): In addition to working on a little holiday gift to the Game Informer community this weekend, I'll be testing my patience and determination by making my way deeper into Dark Souls II.
Sam Stewart(@_SamStewart): I plan on finding a new game to dig into this weekend. I’m thinking The Banner Saga, Suikoden II, or The Evil Within. As always I will be accepting any and all Super Smash Bros. for Wii U challengers (bring it on Hanson), and of course I’ll make time for a game or two of Dota!Also, my internship officially ends next week so this will be my last Weekend Warrior post. Thank you to anyone who took the time to read my work. I love the Game Informer community, thanks for the good times y’all! 
Jason Dafnis(@Nintendufus): Last Weekend Warrior from me, as the Game Informer Fall internship ends next week. It’s been a good run. Anyway, my weekend’s going to consist of finishing Wolfenstein: The New Order, which I’m borrowing from Sam, and getting into Azure Striker: Gunvolt. I’ve been on a bit of a retro kick recently, finishing Shovel Knight last weekend and picking up Zelda 2 earlier this week. Here’s hoping that kick lasts until I clear out some of my backlog!
Matt Stolpe (@matthew_stolpe): This weekend is my birthday and also my last weekend as a Game Informer intern. My plans are to stress eat, weep about my mortality, and chain myself to the vault so that the GI staff can never get rid of me. Oh, and I’ll probably play a little of Destiny too, but the weeping takes priority.

