
  Dear Game Informer Community






Dear Game Informer Community,

Yesterday, as part of a GameStop restructuring plan, our parent company eliminated the positions of about 120 employees across its various offices. We lost seven members of our team – our cohorts, compatriots, and friends (out of our 38 Team Members). They shaped us and made us who we are today, just like every member of the Game Informer team who passes through this company. 

Here is the official statement from GameStop:

As part of the previously announced GameStop Reboot initiative to transform our business for the future and improve our financial performance, we can confirm a workforce reduction was implemented impacting more than 120 corporate staff positions, representing approximately 14% of our total associate base at our company headquarters as well as at some other offices.

While these changes are difficult, they were necessary to reduce costs and better align the organization with our efforts to optimize the business to meet our future objectives and success factors. We recognize that this is a difficult day for our company and particularly for those associates impacted. We appreciate their dedication and service to GameStop and are committed to supporting them during this time of transition.

I’m saddened by yesterday’s news; the Game Informer team means the world to me. You, our readers who have supported us over the years – mean the world to us. I can’t thank them or you enough. 

We appreciate the love that has poured out for GI and the affected team members: Matt Bertz, Elise Favis, Javy Gwaltney, Kyle Hilliard, Imran Khan, Jeff Marchiafava, and Suriel Vazquez. They are so talented and so passionate – please support them if you are hiring. Each of them has my highest, most glowing recommendation.

For now, Game Informer lives to fight another day. Your support is appreciated. 

Cheers

Andy

            .

Andy McNamara
Editor-in-chief
Andy has been with the magazine since it launched in 1991 and editor-in-chief since 1994. When he isn't playing games he enjoys riding his bike, travel, and spending time with his family.

Email
Twitter

