
  GI Show — Our Extensive Impressions of Cyberpunk 2077






            On this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, we take our closest look yet at Cyberpunk 2077 and discuss what we thought of our time actually playing CD Projekt Red's long-awaited RPG. Later, we give our impressions of what we saw from both Pokémon Unite and Marvel's Avengers and wrap it all up with another round of community emails. So please join me, Kim Wallace, Matt Miller, Dan "The Jacket" Tack, Brian Shea, and Alex Stadnik for another wild and entertaining episode! 

We continue to do this show from our homes as we hunker down in quarantine, so please forgive us for any audio or video hiccups as we deliver content outside the studio.

Thanks for listening! Please make sure to leave feedback below, share the episode if you enjoyed it, and follow me @therealandymc to let me know what you think. 

You can watch the video above, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen on SoundCloud, stream it on Spotify, or download the MP3 at the bottom of the page. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below.

Cyberpunk 2077: 5:45
Pokémon Unite: 1:26:34
Marvel's Avengers: 1:33:49
Community Emails: 1:59:37

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Cyberpunk 2077

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

December 10, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), February 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

