
  GI Show - PlayStation 5 vs Xbox Series X: What It All Means






            On this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, I am joined by Ben Reeves, Alex Stadnik, and Leo Vader to chat about recent VR games Half-LIfe: Alyx and The Room VR: A Dark Matter. The big talker for the show, however, is discussing the battle between PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and what we think all the hardware stats really mean. We finish with the always-entertaining and enlightening community emails.

We do this week's show from our homes as we hunker down in quarantine, so please forgive us for any audio or video hiccups as we deliver content outside the studio.

Thanks for listening! Please make sure to leave feedback below, share the episode if you enjoyed it, and follow me @therealandymc to let me know what you think. 

You can watch the video above, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen on SoundCloud, stream it on Spotify, or download the MP3 at the bottom of the page. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below.

Left 4 Dead's Future: 6:03
Half-Life: Alyx Review Discussion: 7:14
The Room VR: A Dark Matter: 24:58
PS5 Vs. Series X: 37:47
Community Emails: 59:03

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Half-Life: Alyx

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

March 23, 2020

Purchase
More Info

The Room VR: A Dark Matter 

Platform:

PlayStation VR2, PlayStation VR, Rift, Vive

Release Date:

March 26, 2020 (PlayStation VR, Rift, Vive), July 27, 2023 (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

