
  Update: Morrowind, Jade Empire, And More Coming To Xbox One Backward Compatibility 






Update (5:45 p.m. CT): Microsoft's Inside Xbox episode has some major news today. A slew of original Xbox games are making their way to Xbox One backward compatibility, including Destroy All Humans!, a ton of Star Wars titles, Jade Empire, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, and more. 
Several 360 games are also receiving enhancements for the Xbox One X. This includes titles like Darksiders, Portal 2, Red Dead Redemption, and more. Microsoft says that April 2018 is the biggest month for new Xbox One Backward Compatibility additions since the program launched in 2015.
Check out the full list and their corresponding release dates below.
Xbox 360 games getting Xbox One X Enhanced updates on April 10:
·        Darksiders
·        Gears of War 2
·        Portal 2
·        Red Dead Redemption
·        Sonic Generations (first time available on Xbox One)
·        Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 

Original Xbox games releasing on April 17:
·        Blinx: The Time Sweeper
·        Breakdown
·        Conker: Live & Reloaded
·        The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind
·        Hunter: The Reckoning
·        Jade Empire
·        Panzer Dragoon Orta
·        SSX 3

Original Xbox games releasing on April 26:
·        Destroy All Humans!
·        Full Spectrum Warrior
·        Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction
·        MX Unleashed
·        Panzer Elite Action: Fields of Glory (Europe only)
·        Star Wars: Battlefront
·        Star Wars: Battlefront II
·        Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy
·        Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter
·        Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
·        Star Wars: Republic Commando

Original story:
A reddit user discovered that The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and at least three other games are coming to Xbox One backward compatibility later today.
The info, spotted by Reddit user nuton, showed Morrowind on Microsoft's online store but the listing since been taken down. Original Xbox games Destroy All Humans!, Full Spectrum Warrior, and MX Unleashed were also spotted. The description for Morrowind in the screenshot below says it's the Game of the Year edition, meaning it comes with the full game and two expansions, Bloodmoon and Tribunal. Other original Xbox games, if any, have yet to be discovered for launch today. The titles currently don't have a price tag, which means they can't be purchased right now.

This news was probably supposed to be revealed during Microsoft's next Inside Xbox episode that goes live at 3:30 p.m. PT today. The Microsoft-hosted video will pore over details on a "big update" for Xbox backward compatibility. The current original Xbox lineup includes Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, Ninja Gaiden Black, Psychonauts, and Crimson Skies. Each title costs $9.99.
Since this is speculation as of right now, we'll update the article accordingly following Microsoft's reveal later today.
[Source: Reddit via Gamespot]

Our TakeIt's so neat that Microsoft is using their resources to bring these classic games to the current generation. Backward compatibility, along with the subtle resolution and frame-rate enhancements, gives gamers a chance to not only go on a nostalgic trip, but show how far the industry has come. Keep in mind that this announcement, however, is not yet confirmed and that we'll find out for sure later today from Microsoft. Now here's to hoping Knight of the Old Republic II with bug fixes makes the cut either today or soon.

