
  From Software On The Possibility Of A Demon’s Souls Remaster






            Although most of our interviews and conversations with From Software revolved around the studio’s upcoming game, Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, when the time came to chat with director and current From president Hidetaka Miyazaki, we couldn’t resist the opportunity to chat about the studio’s past works. With the recent release of Dark Souls: Remastered, it’s clear From isn’t opposed to revisiting its older games, so we decided to raise the question: Is there any chance of a Demon’s Souls remaster happening?

While Miyazaki thinks it’s possible, it’s not something he’s personally interested in. “It’s like when you write – when you’re younger, you look back on [previous work] and you think ‘Oh, goodness what was I thinking,’” he says. “It’s not that I’m embarrassed, I just don’t like to look at my previous works.” And while he’s not opposed to the idea of a remaster, it’s not exactly up to him, either: Sony would have to sign off on it as well. “You’d have to see what they’re thinking about it.”

If a remaster were on the table, Miyazaki says he wouldn’t necessarily be opposed to having another studio work on it, as long as it were the right one. “If it was a studio that really loved the original work and really put their heart and soul into realizing it again, then that’s something I would enjoy,” he tells us. “But it’s really complicated because I have these fond memories. Thinking about the idea of a remaster gives me kind of butterflies in my stomach and makes me a little nervous, so it’s complicated. But I understand there are many users and many players and fans out there who really love Demon’s, so if that’s something they could accomplish with a studio that loved the work, then yeah, I’d be okay with that.”

Putting logistics aside, however, Miyazaki tells us he’s happy to see us bring the topic up in the first place. “That was the first action fantasy game that I created, or I directed,” he says. “I have fond memories of it, but it’s definitely not my place to say they’ll remaster.”

For more on From Software’s next game, Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, check out our recent dives into the game’s bosses, storytelling, and changes, and click on the hub below to see all of our coverage throughout the month.

      Products In This Article

Demon's Souls

Platform:

PlayStation 3

Release Date:

October 6, 2009

Purchase
More Info

Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2019

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

