
  May Cover Revealed – Mortal Kombat 11






            NetherRealm Studios has a lot of fans to please. Over the years, the developer has found massive success by creating sprawling experiences centered around its unique take on the fighting genre. NetherRealm has found new ways for fans to keep playing its games for hours, whether they just want to get through the bombastic new story mode, run through arcade ladders over and over, or dive deep into its brutal nuances.

Mortal Kombat 11 looks to be the studio’s most ambitious game yet, broadening the scope of its storytelling with a past-meets-present premise and letting players alter their favorite characters into something uniquely theirs. We’ve played a near-final build of the game and talked to its developers to learn how Mortal Kombat has maintained such a massive audience, and how this entry hopes to take things even further.

Along with revealing a new character and diving deep into what Mortal Kombat 11 has to offer across 14 pages, we’ve also dedicated this issue to fighting games themselves. You can check out our list of the 30 best fighting games of all time, 10 surprising new ones on the horizon, and an extensive dive into the new Samurai Shodown. We also visited the set of the Pokémon Detective Pikachu film and talked to the cast, producers, and director to learn how Hollywood is bringing Pokémon to life in a new way.

Check out our coverage trailer to get a look at what kinds of videos and coverage we'll have throughout the month.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. Can’t wait that long? The digital edition of the issue is available later today on PC/Mac, iOS, and Android. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Google News, Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

To see all of our coverage of Mortal Kombat 11 this month, click on the banner below and bookmark our hub. We’ll have videos, articles, and interviews with the developers at NetherRealm leading up to the game’s launch.

