
  NetherRealm Is Open To Adding More Custom Moves To Mortal Kombat 11 As DLC






            Mortal Kombat 11’s enormous array of skins, gear, and moves should give you several ways to customize your favorite character to your liking, but NetherRealm already has plans to add even more skins and gear to the game post-launch as DLC. Custom moves are a different story, but the developer isn’t ruling them out.

Adding more moves to Mortal Kombat 11 post-launch would prove more difficult than adding a skin or piece of gear. It would require NetherRealm to motion-capture and properly animate each move to make sure it fits in with the rest that character’s moveset. Of course, NetherRealm also has to consider the balance implications each move would have. “You drop in a new special or something like that, then it's like 'well, that special has to work with all specials, not just of that character, it has to work now against all the other characters' stuff,” says lead designer John Edwards. “So it does present unique challenges."

Edwards says NetherRealms is listening to player feedback, and if Mortal Kombat 11 does well enough to maintain a steady community, it's willing to look into adding whatever that community gravitates towards. “As long as the game is doing well, and people are playing, we want to support it,” he says. “And [extra moves do] sound like one of the things that would naturally, maybe, kind of flow out of that as we add DLC characters and we patch, and things like that.”

So it’s possible characters could get more moves down the line, if fans ask for them (politely!) enough. Of course, that would make it even harder to balance the game as a whole, especially when it comes to competitive play.

Though it’s likely such DLC would be paid (as are skins and gear), NetherRealm also confirms you won’t be able to pay for the consumable items you can use inside the Towers of Time mode, which means players won’t be able to pay extra money to top the leaderboards.

For more on Mortal Kombat 11, check out the rest of our month of coverage below, which will be updated throughout the month leading up to the game’s launch. We’ll have developer interviews, breakdowns, and a look at a new character.

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 11

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

April 23, 2019

Purchase
More Info

