
  Cyberpunk 2077 Is Getting A Fully Functional Metro And More With A 2.1 Update






            Turns out CD Projekt has even more plans for Cyberpunk beyond its 2.0 update and Phantom Liberty earlier this year. During a stream detailing the update with developers Paweł Sasko and Monika Janowska, the team at CD Projekt revealed Cyberpunk will be getting a 2.1 update soon that will add a fully functional metro, radioport, replayable car races, boss fight improvements, accessibility features, and more. The update will be available December 5 (the same day Rockstar is launching the trailer for the next Grand Theft Auto), which will also mark the release of Cyberpunk 2077's Ultimate Edition.

The metro system, called NCART in the game, lets players move around the city and take in the views. The Radioport will let players listen to music outside of vehicles. The update will also allow players to to invite their in-game significant others to "quality time" together in V's apartment. The other previously mentioned updates are a little more self-explanatory, though CD Projekt did specifically mention that the boss updates were specifically applied to the late-game encounter with Adam Smasher. He is also now equipped with Sandevistan, which was seen in Cyberpunk: Edgerunners. New vehicles will be added like the Porsche 911 Cabriolet and others, motorcycle handling has been improved, and there are also technical updates like larger fonts and the option to turn off timers in the Breach Protocol minigame.

As stated, the 2.1 patch launches December 5 on all platforms. To read Game Informer's Cyberpunk 2077 review, follow the link. You can also read our Phantom Liberty review here.

      Products In This Article

Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 26, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Cyberpunk 2077

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

December 10, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), February 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

