
  Dead Cells Co-developer Evil Empire Officially Ends Its Support Of The Roguelike Platformer






            Dead Cells was developed and released by Motion Twin in 2018, and in an atypical move in the world of game development, members of that team branched off to form Evil Empire, which in turn supported Dead Cells with new content for many years. Arguably its biggest and most notable expansion was the Return to Castlevania DLC, which added all kinds of Castlevania content to the game.

The developer announced this morning, however, that it is officially time to move on. You can see the developer's full statement below.

After 5 years of service, we're hanging up the Dead Cells coat. We're extremely proud of our work on countless updates & DLC, but now it's time for something shiny and new, or maybe more than one thing 😏 More on that very soon...
Read our full statement below👇 #deadcells https://t.co/CqbNvNXGu1 pic.twitter.com/RAz8OL1SCC
— Evil Empire (@Studio_Evil) February 9, 2024

Along with issuing apologies for any broken controllers related to the Derelict Distillery addition, Evil Empire also shared its appreciation for being able to add so much to Dead Cells. It also wrote, "The good news is that our Dead Cells team have been unleashed to pump their talent into our secret projects, and we'll be revealing what their crazy minds have been coming up with very soon!" while also wishing luck to Motion Twin's next announced project, Windblown, and teasing perhaps more than one project.

For more on Evil Empire, you can read Game Informer's impressions of the Dead Cells: Return to Castelvania DLC.

      Products In This Article

Dead Cells

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

August 7, 2018 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), February 28, 2019 (iOS), June 3, 2020 (Android), June 29, 2023 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Dead Cells: Return To Castlevania

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 6, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

