
  Dragon Ball FighterZ And Marvel Vs. Capcom Infinite's Producers On The Perceived Rivalry






Dragon Ball FighterZ and Marvel vs. Capcom Infinite share a few things in common. They're both 2D-style fighting games, they both feature beloved characters, and both are team-based fighters where players bring multiple characters into a single fight. The deeper you go, the more separate the two games become, but there is at least a small amount of undeniable overlap between the two. While visiting Arc System Works to discuss Dragon Ball FighterZ, we spoke with the game's producer, Tomoko Hiroki, and also reached out to Infinite producer, Michael Evans, to discuss the comparisons that have been drawn between the two games.
To start, Hiroki talked to us about why FighterZ is team-based, as opposed to a one-on-one fighter. "This is a Dragon Ball game, so it would feel a bit odd to see, for example, Goku being defeated by Krillin, but by incorporating a team-battle system, we can implement license-based features and settings, which would offer a better image of the characters with their victories. For example, with the aforementioned Krillin using Senzu Beans to bring victory to the team," Hiroki says. "This was one of the reasons why we decided to go with a 3-on-3 team battle system."As far as the direct comparison to Marvel vs. Capcom, Hiroki is aware of the Internet putting the two games side by side. "If I'm not mistaken, Infinite is designed with a two-on-two battle system, whereas our game features a three-on-three battle system. In that sense, the gameplay differs between the games. Heck, the release dates are different, too [laughs]," Hiroki says. "In any case, I'm happy that our titles are each different in its own unique way. "Still, I have to admit, when I first saw Marvel Versus Capcom Infinite, I thought to myself, 'Oh shoot!' [laughs]."
In terms of her history with the Marvel vs. Capcom series, Hiroki unfortunately doesn't really have one. We asked her if she was a fan of the series. "Not really, as I haven't had a chance to play them very much," she told us.
Evans, similarly, layed out Capcom's intentions for Marvel vs. Capcom Infinite, saying, "We set out to make the most over-the-top, crazy and fun versus fighting game we could. It’s a difficult task, but the Marvel vs. Capcom series has always been about bringing the hype and Infinite is taking that excitement to another level. Like Marvel vs. Capcom 3 and its predecessors, we hope to see players finding new strategies and enjoying the richness of the game system for years to come."
Regarding FighterZ specifically, however, “I haven’t played it yet, but the action in Dragon Ball FighterZ looks great," Evans says, "Personally, in the past, I haven’t put a lot of time into the anime fighters, but I’m looking forward to trying it out. All I can say is that it’s a great time to be alive for fighting-game fans!"
For more on Dragon Ball FighterZ, including exclusive gameplay footage and interviews with its developers, click the banner below.

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

