
  Elden Ring's Shadow Of The Erdtree DLC Trailer Promises A June Release Date






            After a long wait, we finally have details about Elden Ring's upcoming DLC, Shadow of the Erdtree. Publisher Bandai Namco and developer From Software released the add-on's first official trailer this morning which revealed it is launching June 21. Bandai Namco is also releasing a physical version of the game, the Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree Collector's Edition, which includes a statue and other goodies.

You can check out the trailer below.

The trailer begins by focusing on a setting where an optional boss appeared in the main game and where you can find Miquella's egg. The trailer shows new monsters and bosses, like a lion creature with a rotating head and another made entirely of flames. There are also new abilities, items, and weapons, one of which appears to be a roaring bear's head. There is also some kind a porcupine alligator creature and the player character sprouted angel wings in one fight. Those are just a few of the standout reveals.

The game's official product page does confirm a few additional details, like the name of the main boss seems to be Mesmer the Impaler. Shadow of the Erdtree is also not standalone despite carrying a $39.99 price tag. The page refers to it as an expansion and it will require the base game. Here's the official description.

The Shadow of the Erdtree expansion features an all-new story set in the Land of Shadow imbued with mystery, perilous dungeons, and new enemies, weapons and equipment.

Discover uncharted territories, face formidable adversaries, and revel in the satisfying triumph of victory. Dive into the riveting interplay of characters, where drama and intrigue intertwine, that create an immersive experience to savor and enjoy.

Follow the link to read Game Informer's Elden Ring review.

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Elden Ring Shadow of the Erdtree

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

