
                                          Poochy And Yoshi's Woolly World
                  				 Review


  A Tight-Knit Port




Reviewed on 3DS

Publisher
Nintendo

Developer
Good Feel

Release
February 3, 2016

Rating
Everyone

Yoshi’s Woolly World is the best Yoshi’s Island game since the original released for Super Nintendo in 1995. Seeing its gameplay on a different platform seemed entirely possible, but the Wii U version took full advantage of the console’s HD visuals which made a port to the 3DS suspect. Thankfully, despite the small visual downgrade, Woolly World is still a great platformer, even on 3DS.

In a broad sense, Woolly World is unchanged from the Wii U version. Small things – like a different layout for the overworld – are present, but all the levels, controls, and general charm of a Nintendo platformer in a world made of yarn is all here on 3DS. It still looks great, too, and if you’re playing on New 3DS the framerate boosts to 60 FPS, making it a smoother experience.

Additions for Poochy & Yoshi’s Woolly World include a new auto-running mode starring Poochy and changes to mellow mode. Poochy’s auto-running levels are fun and give you a chance to collect gems, or complete missions like collecting certain items as you speed-run, or making sure you duck under that log. I like these new levels, but as a returning Woolly World fan, I would have liked to access them faster and without having to replay the campaign.

Sorry, this video is not available

Mellow mode, which is geared toward younger players, gives Yoshi wings and lets him fly through levels. On 3DS, a collection of Poochy Pups now follow Yoshi to help find secrets and can be used as yarn balls so you never run out of throwable items. The pups are cute, and a mode that lets my young daughter (who hasn’t mastered platforming yet) enjoy the cute visuals without getting frustrated is welcome.

Co-op mode, a destination for many in the Wii U version, is gone for 3DS, but I didn’t miss it. On Wii U, Woolly World functioned better as a single-player game. The Yoshis are large character models, and placing more than one on the screen could sometimes get claustrophobic.

If you skipped Woolly World on Wii U, Poochy & Yoshi’s Woolly World offers what is essentially a straight port. It doesn’t feel downgraded, even if the visuals aren’t quite as sharp. Exchanging co-op for the dedicated Poochy auto-run levels and a better mellow mode is a worthy trade. Woolly World is still the best Yoshi’s Island game since the original, even on this less-powerful platform.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptPort the quality platformer from Wii U to 3DS, adding some new features while removing co-op
GraphicsThe 3DS version is undeniably inferior to the Wii U version, but the yarn aesthetic still looks great on the mobile platform
SoundThe cute sound effects and excellent music moves to 3DS without any noticeable changes
PlayabilityMoving and firing off yarn balls lives up to Nintendo’s high platforming standards. Playing on New 3DS offers a smoother experience with 60 FPS, but the 30 FPS on the standard 3DS gets the job done just fine
EntertainmentYoshi moves to the 3DS from the Wii U with little downgrading. The new modes don’t merit a re-purchase for those that played the Wii U version, but this version is a perfectly fine way to experience Woolly World
ReplayModerate

      Products In This Article

Poochy And Yoshi's Woolly World

Platform:

3DS

Release Date:

February 3, 2016

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

