
  How We Chose Our Games Of The Year | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show we discuss our game and games of the year, the best and brightest feature (currently in the Final Fantasy VII Rebirth issue of the magazine), and just generally recap all the discussions that went it how that annual feature comes together.

The Game Informer Show #687 Podcast:

Follow us on social media: Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:07:31 - A Breakdown of Game Informer's Top 10 Games of 2023
01:09:28 - A Breakdown of Game Informer's Category Winner of 2023
01:42:48 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Baldur's Gate 3

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 3, 2023 (PC), September 6, 2023 (PlayStation 5), December 7, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

