
  How Is Ghost Of Tsushima On Steam Deck? | New Gameplay Today






            Ghost of Tsushima, specifically the Director's Cut, is out on PC today. It's a fantastic game that should be welcomed with open arms as it makes its way to a new platform, but we were specifically curious about how it performs on Steam Deck. The game is not Steam Deck verified primarily because certain features are not supported on Valve's handheld, or other comparable mobile PC game platforms. However, the offline content (the single-player campaign and the expansion) has been specifically adjusted to play well on Steam Deck. You can read port studio Nixxes Software explanation here. And spending a little time with the game shows that the single-player campaign does, in fact, play well on Steam Deck. It's not without its shortcomings – a high-end PC or a PlayStation 5 are still the best ways to play the game – but Steam Deck appears to be a great way to play the game if that's your only option or you want a portable version.

You can check out some gameplay with commentary from myself and Wesley LeBlanc below.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Head to Game Informer's YouTube channel for more previews, reviews, and discussions of new and upcoming games. Watch other episodes of New Gameplay Today right here.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

August 20, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4), May 16, 2024 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

