
  If You Don't Know What To Do In Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom Talk To Patricia






            The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is a huge game that is particularly skilled at providing you with distractions. I crossed the 90-hour mark recently, and my in-game percentage tracker still shows less than 50% completion. Sometimes, however, you may run into a situation where you're not sure where you want to go. When that happens, I suggest talking to Patricia.

Patricia is not a human character in Tears of the Kingdom. She's a sand seal, and Riju's personal sand seal at that. After cleaning up the main quest in Gerudo, you will find her in the southern corner of Gerudo town.

Patricia loves to eat and will share bits of ambiguous wisdom, translated by her handler Padda, when you give Patricia food. Her favorite food, however, is Splash Fruit.

If you give her some splash fruit, her caretaker will let you know that she has spoken a string of strange numbers.

Those numbers are, of course, coordinates, which you can find on the map or on the bottom of the minimap as you are exploring.

In the example I took screenshots of for this guide, it sent me to a person out in the middle of nowhere who happened to have a sidequest for me. I've done this a few times with Patricia, and she has always pointed me toward something I have not yet discovered.

Running out of things to do in Tears of the Kingdom is something that many players (myself included) won't run into for many hours, but it's nice to know there is an in-game database of distractions built into the game when you run out of activities.

For more on Zelda, you can read Game Informer's Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom review, our beginner tips guide, our interview with producer and director Eiji Aonuma and Hidemaro Fujibayashi, our Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Amiibo guide, and this feature of stupid screenshots.

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

