
                                          Kirby: Triple Deluxe
                  				 Review


  An Upward Slope Of Charm And Challenge




Reviewed on 3DS

Publisher
Nintendo

Developer
HAL Laboratory

Release
April 2, 2014

Rating
Everyone

Kirby has always moved at a slower pace compared to the platforming members of his extended Nintendo family like Donkey Kong and Mario. The difficulty level in Kirby’s outings remains consistently low, creating a relaxed breed of enjoyable (but predictable) action. Triple Deluxe doesn’t change the Kirby formula drastically, but it improves the difficulty curve and adds several fun mechanics.
The big draw of Triple Deluxe is the way it plays with action in the foreground and back ground of each level. Kirby moves between the two planes, but the most interesting use of this mechanic is the way elements from one plane affect the other. Trees fall from the background into the foreground, threatening to crush Kirby. Walls tip forward, forcing Kirby to position himself in front of an opening – like Buster Keaton narrowly avoiding death from a collapsing house. Triple Deluxe is a 2D platformer, but these elements force you to observe the level from all directions, as opposed to only the obstacles directly in front of you. This adds to the challenge, and results in some fun spectacles.
Triple Deluxe gives Kirby a handful of new powers, each changing the way you approach traversal and enemies, The most memorable of the bunch is the Hypernova plant. Gaining this power allows Kirby to leverage an incredible amount of sucking power to dismantle and consume trains, weapons, and groups of enemies all at once. Some levels are designed around the use of the Hypernova ability, and I was always excited to come across one. The Hypernova plant is used especially well during the final ramp-up, when Kirby must re-defeat the bosses he had to tackle earlier in the game.
Sorry, this video is not available
Along with the single-player campaign comes two extra modes (hence the name Triple Deluxe) offering decent, but limited, distractions. One casts players as King Dedede in a rhythm platforming game. Only three levels are available, but perfecting them is a challenge. Kirby Fighters lets local 3DS players duke it out against one another, each playing as Kirby with their choice of power. After play ing a handful of rounds on each of the available stages, I didn’t feel compelled to revisit it, but the familiar feel got me excited for the 3DS version of Super Smash Bros. Additional modes are also unlocked after beating the campaign, one of which lets you speed-run through the single-player campaign as King Dedede, who’s alternate abilities make for a distinct and equally fun experience worth exploring.
Triple Deluxe does a better job than most Kirby games at retaining a consistent upward slope of challenge throughout. During the last few worlds and final boss, I was surprised to see my lives dwindle, and began to play much more carefully – something I’ve never done in previous Kirby titles. I was excited to embrace this challenge. The game isn’t hard, but I needed to improve my abilities as I made my way to the end boss. This made for a Kirby experience that remained engaging up to the final boss and beyond.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptKirby gets pulled into another platforming adventure, but this time he can move between planes and his sucking powers have received a huge upgrade
GraphicsKirby is cute, his enemies are cute, and his world is cute. Plus, everything looks like delicious candy
SoundRemixes of classic Kirby music fill the game with nostalgic charm
PlayabilitySlower than most modern platformers, but finding a rhythm doesn’t take long. Motion-controlled elements are used sparingly, but work well
EntertainmentThe single-player campaign is the main attraction, offering a fun experience that plays with Kirby’s typical mechanics in interesting ways
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Kirby: Triple Deluxe

Platform:

3DS

Release Date:

April 2, 2014

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

