
  Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth Gets New Trailers And January Release Date






            Sega and Like a Dragon series developer Ryu Ga Gotoku (RGG) Studio held a presentation this morning sharing all kinds of new details for its upcoming games, Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth and Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name.

First up, it shared a 10-minute story trailer for Infinite Wealth, which shared so many details that I am hesitant to write them all here in fear of spoiling potentially major plot beats in the game. The summary is that Ichiban Kasuga is offered the opportunity to find his mother, which means he must travel to Honolulu, Hawaii. Returning characters make an appearance, Ichiban will apparently be fighting sharks and giant squids, taking part in fun Hawaii activities like surfing, and, expectedly, will be getting into all kinds of trouble with the local gangs. Kazamu Kiryu's role also gets somewhat defined in the trailer.

Some details not in the trailer include the fact that the playable party now has full freedom of movement while fighting, allowing for more strategy. The game includes a Crazy Taxi-inspired minigame, among many other money-making opportunities. Actors Danny Trejo (Machete) and Daniel Dae Kim (Lost) will also be playing Dwight, the leader of the Barracudas gang, and Masataka Ebina, the ruthless captain of the local yakuza syndicate, respectively. You can check out some additional screenshots for the game below.

Alongside the story trailer, there is also a five-minute gameplay trailer.

Arguably, the biggest news from the event, however, is Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth's release date, which isn't far off. The game releases January 26 on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, and PC. Preorders for the game will net you the Hero’s Booster Pack, to level up faster, and a Special Job Set that includes the Linebacker and Tennis Ace jobs.

Alongside all the Infinite Wealth details, Sega and RGG also released the full opening cinematic for Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, which you can watch below.

<br/>

      Products In This Article

Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

January 26, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

