
  Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Vol. 1 On PS5 | New Gameplay Today






            The Metal Gear franchise has been quiet since 2018's somewhat bizarre Metal Gear Survive. The series' creator, Hideo Kojima, publicly left Konami in 2015 shortly after the release of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain and since then fans just weren't sure what to expect, or even if to expect anything from the property. That changed recently when Konami finally revealed some plans for the franchise. Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater is being remade and retitled Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, and the Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Volume 1 is releasing this week.

The collection contains the NES and MSX releases of Metal Gear, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake, Snake's Revenge, Metal Gear Solid, Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, and additional bonuses like soundtracks, scripts, and more. It's far from a complete collection of all things Metal Gear (hence the Volume 1 part of the title, presumably), but it arguably finally gives players access to the best of Metal Gear's past on modern consoles. The game releases on Xbox Series X, Switch, and PC October 24, but ahead of that release, Alex Van Aken (a Metal Gear newcomer) joined me (an old Metal Gear sicko) for an extended look at almost everything the collection offers.

We had early access to the PlayStation 5 version of the game and you can check out the full video below:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Head over to Game Informer's YouTube channel for more previews, reviews, and discussions of new and upcoming games. Watch other episodes of New Gameplay Today right here.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Volume 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

