
  Send Us Your Questions And Rants For A Chance To Win A Game Informer Gold Copy Of The Dragon Age: The Veilguard Issue






            For every issue of Game Informer magazine, we print a handful of Game Informer Gold editions. These versions sometimes feature alternate art, have a gold embossed logo on the front, are individually numbered, and feature higher-quality paper. They're very nice, and we reserve them for special occasions like charity auctions or, as is the case here, giveaways.

For the recent Dragon Age: The Veilguard issue, we have two Game Informer Gold editions we are prepared to send to readers. For a chance at winning one of these collectible issues, we want to hear from you about what's on your mind about gaming and Game Informer. Send a message to our Replies section for a chance to be featured in our monthly magazine letters column.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you fill out the form below before August 26, 2024, you will be entered to win one of two Game Informer Gold copies of our Dragon Age: The Veilguard issue. In terms of the kind of feedback we're looking for, we want thoughtful responses to our content, general thoughts on the video game industry, your criticisms of previously released or upcoming games, or anything else that will make the magazine better. We're flexible! We want to know what's on your mind and potentially share your thoughts and questions with the rest of Game Informer's readers.

We're looking forward to your responses and we hope you are looking forward to seeing your responses in the magazine. Good luck! And please enjoy a little necessary legalese before you fill out and submit the form below.

Giveaway valid for U.S. addresses only. Responses must reach a baseline level of quality and originality to be considered valid. Winners will be notified through the email address linked to their GameInformer.com account. If response is not received within 5 business days, winners may forfeit their prize.

Submit Your Question or Letter

          You must be logged in to use this form.Log in

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

