
  Stellar Blade, Sand Land, Monkey Ball, Crabs, And Knuckles | GI Show






            This week on The Game Informer Show podcast, it's all about reviews. We had three big reviews drop this week (on the same day [around the same time]), as well as a TV show review. Join host Kyle Hilliard as Matt Miller discusses Stellar Blade, Wesley LeBlanc chats about Another Crab's Treasure, and Brian Shea tells us what he thinks of the Knuckles TV show. Kyle also talks about his time with Sand Land and Brian shares preview impressions of the first original Monkey Ball game in years as well as the new TopSpin tennis game.

Episode 704 – Stellar Blade, Sand Land, Monkey Ball, Crabs, And Knuckles:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:02:57 - Stellar Blade Review
00:25:13 - Sand Land Review
00:38:59 - Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble Preview
00:49:23 - Another Crab's Treasure Review
01:01:23 - Knuckles TV Series Review
01:21:43 - TopSpin 2K25
01:27:00 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Stellar Blade

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

April 26, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Sand Land

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

April 26, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Another Crab's Treasure

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

April 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

