
  Super Mario Bros. Wonder Cover Story And Assassin's Creed Mirage | GI Show






            In this episode of The Game Informer Show, we discuss our latest cover story for Super Mario Bros. Wonder! Brian Shea has spent more time with the game than anyone outside of Nintendo and spoke with members of Nintendo about creating the big step for 2D Mario. Then we kick Brian out of the show to welcome Wesley LeBlanc to tell us about his experience with Assassin's Creed Mirage. Wesley has finished the game (and it took him less than 20 hours) and has thoughts on the game's strange place in the pantheon of Assassin's Creed games. Lastly, Alex shares his latest Pokémon card escapades and decides who in history he can successfully fight.

Watch Game Informer's Weekly Podcast:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), and Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes).

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:03:42 - Super Mario Bros. Wonder Preview
00:26:52 - Forza Motorsport
00:36:06 - Assassin's Creed Mirage
00:48:02 - Pokémon TCG: Scarlet & Violet—151
00:58:19 - Odds & Ends - Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, Baldur's Gate 3, Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp
01:01:17 - Roman Empire Chat
01:05:14 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Assassin's Creed Mirage

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS

Release Date:

October 5, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), 2024 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

