
  The Best Hour Of Metal Gear Solid | Replay






            With the recent Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Volume 1 and the upcoming Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, Hideo Kojima's iconic tactical espionage action franchise has been on our minds. And miraculously, somehow, across approximately 588 episodes of Replay, we have never revisited Metal Gear Solid. This week I am happy to correct that monumental mistake.

We will get back to Majora's Mask soon (Marcus is out on assignment this week) but we took that opportunity to revisit one of, if not the, best PlayStation games with Metal Gear Solid. It just so happens that Alex Van Aken is playing through the game for fun, so I asked him if we could just jump into his save for an hour. And you know what? It just so happened to be one of the best hours of the whole game. Alex takes out Liquid Snake in the HIND, meets the invisible overweight soldiers, and defeats Sniper Wolf. It's a fantastic snapshot of a fantastic game.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives of GI Live and more.

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

      Products In This Article

Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Volume 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Metal Gear Solid

Platform:

PlayStation

Release Date:

October 21, 1998

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

