
  The Biggest Reveals From The 2024 Summer Gaming Showcases






            Introduction

E3 is no more, but in its place a new different kind of summer video game show has emerged. It's Summer Game Fest... and friends? Geoff Keighley's show has become an anchor of sorts for the whole thing, but there is plenty more happening just generally nearby. Whatever we want to call it, it has created a lot of content for our website (and the coming issues of the magazine) and below you will find a nearly comprehensive list of everything we wrote this weekend. Enjoy!

Round-ups

Littlelands

Round-ups

Every Game Showcased At Day Of The Devs SGF Edition 2024
From mutant giraffes to house-based romance to hand-drawn voyeurism, the future of the indie games space looks promising.

Everything Announced During The 2024 Summer Devolver Direct Presentation
From Heart Machine's new game to a new roguelite from the designer behind Dead Cells, here's everything we learned from Devolver's latest showcase.

Thirteen Of Our Favorite Games From The Wholesome Direct 2024
If cozy games are your thing, these are 13 games you should keep an eye on. 

Previews

Astro Bot

Previews

Monster Hunter Wilds Preview - The Chase Is On
We saw a live gameplay demo and spoke with the creators of the highly anticipated Monster Hunter Wilds.

Astro Bot Preview - Bigger And Bot-ter
After our hands-on experience at Summer Game Fest, Astro Bot is poised to be one of the highlights of the PS5's already impressive library.

Black Myth: Wukong Preview - A Classic Tale Retold
I played Black Myth: Wukong at Summer Game Fest and walked away very impressed.

Assassin's Creed Shadows Preview – Katanas And Kunai
While in Los Angeles for Summer Game Fest, we got to see a behind-closed-doors demo for the next Assassin's Creed.

Dragon Ball: Sparking! Zero Preview - Looking Forward To Next Time On Dragon Ball ZWe played a few matches in the upcoming successor to the Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 3D fighting franchise.

Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 Preview - Hoping To Sprint In The Right Direction
We visited Treyarch to learn about the big moves the studio is making with the latest Call of Duty: Black Ops entry.

Metaphor: ReFantazio Preview - A New World Of Fantasy
We go played nearly an hour of the latest game from the developers behind the Persona franchise.

GreedFall 2: The Dying World Preview - Back To The Start
GreedFall 2 aims to give players more insight into the world of the first game, and we spent an hour with it to understand the various changes it makes to the formula.

Takashi Iizuka Explains Why Shadow Has New Powers In Sonic X Shadow Generations
The creative officer of Sonic Team explains why Sonic X Shadow Generations is giving players more power as Shadow this time around.

Marvel Rivals

Marvel Rivals Hands-On Preview – Putting The Hero In Hero Shooter
Marvel Rivals brings to the table much of what initially drew me to Overwatch.

Metal Slug Tactics Preview - A Promising And Challenging Boot Camp
We played a full region of the upcoming spin-off and see a lot of potential in this neat reimagining.

Plotting Explosive Moves In Metal Slug Tactics | New Gameplay Today
Watch us enlist in this promising reimagining of the long-running series.

Wolfhound Is Inspired By Metroid And NES Metal Gear | New Gameplay Today
Join us for a look at some gameplay from the upcoming Metroidvania platformer.

Donkey Kong Country Fans Should Take Note Of Nikoderiko: The Magical World | New Gameplay Today
Crash Bandicoot fans should pay attention, as well.

The Plants Vs. Zombies-esque Metal Slug Attack Reloaded | New Gameplay Today
Join Kyle and Brian for a look at the other tactical Metal Slug game that surprise released today.

Nintendo Direct

The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom

Nintendo Direct

Zelda Is Finally The Protagonist In The Legend Of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom, Out September
The titular princess gets a long-overdue turn in the spotlight.

Metroid Prime 4 Reemerges With New Gameplay Trailer And Beyond Subtitle
Metroid Prime 4: Beyond is coming in 2025.

Mario & Luigi: Brothership Is An RPG Releasing Later This Year
The duo is ready for a new RPG (with lots of action elements).

Marvel Vs. Capcom Collection Wants To Take Us For A Ride Later This Year
Seven classic Marvel games developed by Capcom are arriving later this year.

Donkey Kong Country Returns HD Is On The Way To Switch
The long-anticipated return of the platformer is on the way early next year.

Metroid, Perfect Dark, Zelda, And Turok Come To Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack Today
Four oft-requested classic games arrive on Nintendo Switch today.

Nintendo Switch Sports Adding Basketball In Free Update
With the NBA season officially over, you can take to the courts in Nintendo Switch Sports this summer.

Ace Attorney Investigations Collection Announced, Launches September
Miles Edgeworth's second spin-off finally comes to the west.

The Hundred Line: Last Defense Academy Is A New Strategy Game From The Makers Of Danganronpa
The game tasks players with defending their school for 100 days.

Super Mario Party Jamboree

Super Mario Party Jamboree Revealed
Mario and his buddies are off to an island resort to enjoy a wealth of new minigames.

Hello Kitty Island Adventure Coming To Consoles And PC In 2025
PlayStation, Nintendo, and PC players can look forward to experiencing the popular mobile title on their consoles next year.

Dragon Quest I & II HD-2D Remake Is Coming In 2025
It seems Square Enix is so happy with the unreleased Dragon Quest III HD-2D remake that the first two games will also be getting the treatment.

Free Illusion Island Update, Mystery In Monoth, Launches Today
The new adventure includes sleuthing

Final Fantasy Creator's Apple Arcade Exclusive Fantasian Arrives On Switch This Year
The acclaimed RPG released on Apple Arcade in 2021 and arrives as Fantasian Neo Dimension.

Ubisoft Forward

Assassin's Creed Shadows

Ubisoft Forward

Assassin’s Creed Shadows Highlights Character Differences
A new gameplay trailer shows off the distinct playstyles of the leads in the Japan-set release.

Star Wars Outlaws Gets Lengthy Gameplay Demonstration
Get a look at many of the game's systems and locations in this guided tour.

Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of Time Remake Is Coming In 2026
Sands Of Time exists again... but we won't playing it for a long time.

Prince Of Persia: The Lost Crown 'Divine Trials' DLC Available Now, Story DLC Out This September
The new Divine Trials DLC includes revisited bosses, new puzzle and platforming challenges, new amulets, and more.

Assassin's Creed Shadows Gameplay Reveal Shows Off The Disparate Talents Of Yasuke And Naoe
See how each of these very different assassin's play in this extended gameplay showcase.

Xbox Showcase

Doom: The Dark Ages

Xbox Showcase

Call Of Duty: Black Ops 6 Gameplay Reveal Highlights Post-Cold War Action And Conspiracy In The 1990s
It's our first look at the story for Call of Duty: Black Ops 6.

Doom: The Dark Ages Revealed, And It Hits PlayStation, Xbox, And PC Next Year
Doom goes medieval for the threequel in ID Software's modern reboot of the series.

State of Decay 3 Trailer Revealed, Coming To Game Pass Day One
Undead Labs showed off the third installment of the franchise at today’s Xbox event.

Starfield Shattered Space DLC Coming This Year, Additional Content Coming Today
Starfield is getting a big expansion later this year, but there's new content to play right now, too.

Dragon Age: The Veilguard Trailer Introduces The Cast And Reveals A Fall Release Window
See who you'll be fighting alongside in the game's first trailer.

Latest Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater Trailer Shows All Gameplay
We finally have a proper look at Metal Gears Solid Delta: Snake Eater's gameplay, and it looks great.

Playground Games' Fable Gets 2025 Release Window In First Gameplay Trailer
Though the trailer is mostly cineamtic, there are a few glimpses of gameplay within it.

Flintlock: The Siege Of Dawn Sets July Launch
A44 Games is a little over a month away from release, according to a new trailer.

Perfect Dark

Perfect Dark Gets First Impressive Gameplay Trailer
The long-lost reboot shows signs of life.

Life is Strange: Double Exposure Is A Proper Follow-up To The First Game
It’s a murder mystery that plays out across two parallel timelines.

Diablo IV's Vessel Of Hatred Expansion Gets October Release Date In New Trailer
The battle of Hatred has only just begun.

New Indiana Jones And The Great Circle Footage Shows Extended Cutscene And Teases Classic Boulder Run
The latest footage of MachineGames' Indiana Jones game showed an extended cutscene, some gameplay clips, and a tease of the first film's boulder run.

Get Another Look At Avowed's Fantasy RPG Action In New Trailer
Avowed hits Xbox Series X/S and PC this year.

Stalker 2: Heart Of Chornobyl's Latest Trailer Shows Plenty Of Gameplay
Stalker 2's Xbox Showcase trailer was fully focused on gameplay.

Wuchang: Fallen Feathers Is A Fantastical Souls-like Action RPG Set During China's Ming Dynasty
Battle demons as a pirate warrior with demonic powers.

Gears Of War: E-Day Is A Prequel Set 14 Years Before The First Game Starring Marcus Fenix
Gears of War goes back to the start of its war.

Three New Xbox Series X/S Models Are Coming This Holiday
If you're looking to buy your first Xbox, Microsoft has expanded your range of options.

Call Of Duty: Black Ops 6 Release Date Set For October
The latest entry in Treyarch's long-running subseries arrives on consoles and PC this fall.

Fallout 76's Skyline Valley Launches Next Week, Play As A Ghoul Starting In 2025
Head southward to the Shenandoah region.

Southern Gothic Action Game South Of Midnight Gets First Gameplay Trailer And 2025 Launch Window
The Bayou-flavored romp comes from the makers of We Happy Few.

Live Like A Mouse With Reveal of Winter Burrow
Pine Creek Games is crafting a new survival game all about making it through winter as a rodent. 

Mixtape Is A Sharp-Looking Coming Of Age Story With Music From Devo, Smashing Pumpkins, And More
The next game from the creators of The Artful Escape is all about getting into innocuous trouble as a teenager.

Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Is A Slick-Looking Fantasy RPG Coming Next Year
Can you break a yearly cycle of death?

Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 Will Let You Live Out Your Aviation Career Dreams This November
Become an ambulance pilot, aerial advertiser, VIP charter captain, and more later this year.

FragPunk Is A 5v5 Hero Shooter Built Around Cards And First-Person Action
It's due out sometime next year.

Summer Game Fest

Summer Game Fest

Battle Suit Aces Is A Card-Based Mecha RPG From The Makers Of Battle Chef Brigade
Play your cards right, and you can build powerful mech suits and personal relationships.

Eriksholm: The Stolen Dream Is A New Stealth Game From Former Mirror's Edge, Battlefield Developers
It's due out on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC sometime next year.

Narrative Action Road Trip Game Dustborn Gets New Trailer And Demo Next Week
Transport a package cross-country disguised as a punk band with a crew of superpowered misfits.

The Star Named EOS Is A Wholesome Photography-Based Puzzle Game Releasing Next Month
It's coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC.

The Stanley Parable Creator's Next Game Is About A Cozy Tea Shop (We Think)
Wanderstop tasks players with running a tea shop – but you can't trust Davey Wreden.

Possessor(s) Is A Side-Scrolling Action Game From The Devs Behind Hyper Light Drifter And Solar Ash
It's coming to consoles and PC next year.

Tenjutsu Is A Martial Arts Roguelite From The Designer Of Dead Cells
Developer Deepnight Games is calling it a "rogue-jutsu."

Cult Of The Lamb's Unholy Alliance Update Adds Local Campaign Co-Op This August
Player 2 will control a new character known as the Goat.

Amazon MMO New World Coming To Consoles With Major Updates
New World: Aeternum launches in October.

Monster Hunter Wilds Latest Gameplay Trailer Shows Off Thrilling Desert Battle
Watch an action-packed chase in this new gameplay video.

Get A New Look At Phantom Blade Zero In New Gameplay Trailer
There's still no release date for the game.

Killer Bean Is A Humorous Open-World Action Roguelite Hitting Early Access This Summer
Play as a rough and tough bean assassin in an ever-changing open-world.

Skate: 'Pre-Pre-Alpha' Gameplay Revealed In New Trailer, Console Playtesting This Fall
Though there's no release date in sight, at least players can soon play the game later this year.

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Rita's Rewind

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Rita’s Rewind Announced
The new retro-themed game looks focused on side-scrolling brawling, but it also has some other surprises in the mix.

Supernatural Action Strategy Game Kunitsu-Gami: Path Of The Goddess Launches In July
A new trailer shows off its colorful and bloody blend of action and strategy.

Valorant For PlayStation And Xbox Coming Later This Year
The popular hero shooter from League of Legends developer Riot Games makes the jump to PlayStation and Xbox later this year.

Alan Wake 2 Night Springs Expansion Releases Tomorrow, Physical Version Of The Game Coming Soon
The DLC will put you in the shoes of three familiar characters.

Battle Aces Is A Far-Future 'Action Real-Time Strategy' Game That Aims To Make The Genre More Approachable
Check out the reveal trailer for a look at its sci-fi action.

Sonic X Shadow Generations Gets October Release Date In New Gameplay Trailer
It's been over 13 years since the original game's release.

The First Descendant Is Coming In July
The highly anticipated free-to-play shooter is releasing this summer.

Cairn Is A New Climbing Adventure-Survival Game From The Developers Behind Haven
And it might be the first rope-lite.

Kingdom Come: Deliverance II Trailer Details The Story And Shows Its Sense Of Humor
Summer Game Fest offered us our first substantial look at the game and its story.

Silent Hill Creator's Slitterhead Gets First Gameplay Look In New Trailer, Out This November
Slitterhead is the first game from Keiichiro Toyama's Bokeh Game Studio.

Street Fighter 6's Year 2 Fighters Include M. Bison And Fatal Fury Guest Fighters
Four new combatants are ready to hit the streets.

Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero Arrives In October
The next big Dragon Ball fighting game arrives this Fall.

Metaphor: ReFantazio

Metaphor: ReFantazio Archetypes Detailed
The creators behind the recent Persona games took to the stage to reveal new details on the exciting new RPG.

New Batman: Arkham Shadow VR Pre-Rendered Trailer Teases The Story
We still haven't seen gameplay, but the latest Arkham Shadow trailer teases the story and characters you will meet.

Neva Gameplay Trailer Shows Off Its Beautiful World And Graceful Combat
The creators of Gris have new footage of its next project.

Sid Meier's Civilization 7 Announced, Coming To Consoles And PC Next Year
This reveal follows Geoff Keighley teasing that 2K had plans to reveal "the next iteration" of one of its biggest and most beloved franchises during SGF.

PlayStation Reveals Lego Horizon Adventures, Coming To PS5, Switch, And PC This HolidayAloy's brickified adventure can be played solo or in co-op with a friend. 

New Harry Potter Quidditch Video Game Is Coming In SeptemberHarry Potter Quidditch Champions is coming later this year.

Sony State Of Play

Silent Hill 2

Sony State of Play

Open World Dress-Up Game Infinity Nikki Gets A Delightful Gameplay Trailer And Beta Test This Year
It's glam time later this year.

Path Of Exile 2 Begins Early Access Later This Year And Is Coming To PS5
The popular free-to-play action RPG is coming to consoles with some cooperative friendly additions.

Alien: Rogue Incursion VR Gameplay Revealed In New Trailer
It hits PlayStation VR2, Meta Quest 3, and Steam (for other PC VR devices) this holiday season.

Until Dawn Arrives On PS5 And PC This Fall
The modern horror classic looks like it'll arrive on modern platforms just in time for Halloween.

Dynasty Warriors: Origins Coming In 2025
The long-dormant franchise is making a return on PlayStation 5.

A New Astro Bot Game Is Coming To PS5 In September
And it's called...Astro Bot.

Silent Hill 2 Remake Gets October Launch Date And New Gameplay Trailer
Just in time for Halloween.

Capcom Reveals First Monster Hunter Wilds Gameplay In New Trailer
It hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC next year.

Where Winds Meet Brings Wuxia To PS5
The upcoming action game embraces ancient China’s supernatural mythology, and today’s new trailer gives a deeper glimpse of the action.  

God Of War Ragnarök Hits PC This September
The game exclusively hit PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 on November 9, 2022.

Ballad Of Antara Is A Gorgeous Free-To-Play Fantasy Action Game Where You Carry A Kid On Your Back
We don't know what's happening, but it looks great.

PlayStation Reveals First Look At Concord's 5v5 FPS Gameplay, Out This August On PS5 And PC
A beta will be held this July.

News

Into the Dead

News

Possessor(s) Is A Side-Scrolling Action Game From The Devs Behind Hyper Light Drifter And Solar Ash
It's coming to consoles and PC next year.

Polaris Is A Co-Op PvE Shooter Coming To PC This Year With Fully Destructible Environments
You can sign up for a beta playest right now.

Hotel Galactic Is A Sci-Fi Management Sim With Studio Ghibli-Inspired Visuals Coming To Consoles And PC
Developer-publisher Ancient Forget is launching a Kickstarter for the game next month.

Get Another Look At Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days' Texan Zombie Action In New Gameplay Teaser
The game is getting a Steam demo this October.

Streets Of Rogue 2 Gets August Early Access Launch Date
The wacky procedurally generated sandbox welcomes players to its chaotic world.

Phantom Line Is A Co-Op Shooter Set In A Post-Nuclear Europe From Former BioShock, Cyberpunk 2077 Devs
Its reveal trailer, which you can watch here, is quite spooky, too.

What was your favorite announcement from the Summer showcases?

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Gears of War: E-Day

Purchase
More Info

Assassin's Creed Shadows

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, Mac

Release Date:

November 15, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Perfect Dark (Reboot)

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

