
  The VR Remake Of The 1993 Classic The 7th Guest | New Gameplay Today






            The 7th Guest is a 1993 puzzle adventure game that was released on PCs in 1993, just a few months before Myst. It was an early instance of a fully modeled 3D location, and its use of FMV actors for its cast felt like you were looking into the future of video games. It received a few underwhelming sequels and other adaptions, but The 7th Guest VR marks arguably its biggest and boldest reimagining. Effectively a remake, this version of the game takes the familiar locations and story and adds in new puzzles and new performances. Considering the original game (and this remake) is about exploring a spooky house and solving puzzles, it feels at home in VR. You can watch Wes LeBlanc and me check out the game below.

For a whole lot more on The 7th Guest, you can read our oral history of the game right here. You can also take a look at this translated interview between Mario and Zelda creator, Shigeru Miyamoto, and Spirited Away director, Hayao Miyazaki, from the early 90s where Miyamoto called the game "inspiring".

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Head over to Game Informer's YouTube channel for more previews, reviews, and discussions of new and upcoming games. Watch other episodes of New Gameplay Today right here.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

The 7th Guest VR

Platform:

PlayStation VR2, Quest, PC

Release Date:

October 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

The 7th Guest

Platform:

PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

April 1, 1993 (PC), December 15, 2010 (iOS), April 14, 2015 (Android)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

