
  The Trailer For The Next Grand Theft Auto Premieres Tuesday December 5






            After teasing that it would be releasing a trailer in early December about a month ago, Rockstar confirmed an exact date and time this morning. The trailer for the next be Grand Theft Auto will premiere Tuesday December 5 at 9 a.m. ET.

pic.twitter.com/BguwiJokQt
— Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames) December 1, 2023

Rockstar shared the tweet above without any context, so it's worth noting that it is technically not confirming that this trailer will be for the next Grand Theft Auto. All it says is "Trailer 1" and a date. But, considering its early November tease explicitly read, "We are very excited to let you know that in early December, we will release the first trailer for the next Grand Theft Auto," it's safe to assume that this is what the tweet is referencing.

The art of the tweet also offers the first official tease for the game's tropical setting. It has long been rumored that the next Grand Theft Auto would return to Vice City and a massive leak in September where 90 video related to the game also made that apparent.

If you're on a video game website reading about Grand Theft Auto, it's safe to assume that the excitement surrounding this game does not need to contextualized, but the previous Grand Theft Auto is one of the video game industry's biggest hits of all time. In 2018 it was crowned the most profitable entertainment product of all time.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

While waiting to learn more about Rockstar's next game, read Game Informer's Grand Theft Auto V review and then read our thoughts on Red Dead Redemption II. After that, read Game Informer's ranking of every single Rockstar game. 

What do you want to see most in the next Grand Theft Auto? What do you think its title will be? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Grand Theft Auto VI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Grand Theft Auto V

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

September 17, 2013 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), November 18, 2014 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), April 14, 2015 (PC), March 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

