
  You Probably Shouldn't Eat These Birds | GI Show






            On this special Thanksgiving episode of The Game Informer Show Podcast, we discuss which fictional video games birds would taste the best. We talk about some video games, too. Charles Harte talks about Chants of Sennaar, a puzzle game about language, and Kyle Hilliard talks about Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, a game about beating up people on the streets of a fictional Japanese city. Kyle also touches on Assassin's Creed VR before the duo moves on to the main course: ranking fictional video game birds on criteria like how tasty do they look and how bad would we feel about eating them. After that, we finish out the show with some gestures of gratitude and reader questions.

Watch The Video Podcast Here:

Follow us on social media: Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard) and Charles Harte (@chuckduck365).

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:02:26 - Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name
00:05:20 - Chants of Sennaar
00:11:22 - Holiday Video Game Plans
00:19:17 - Assassin's Creed Nexus VR
00:22:03 - Thanksgiving Segment
00:53:51 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 9, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Kyle Hilliard
Magazine Content Director
Kyle plays entirely too much Picross. He once wrote a whole book about The Legend of Zelda.

Email
Twitter

