
  NBA 2K League To Livestream Player Draft, Will Run On PC






The inaugural draft of the NBA 2K League is live from the Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden and will be streamed live via Twitch and the NBA's proprietary streaming service, NBA TV. Those watching NBA TV will be treated to the first round of the draft while the draft in its entirety can be viewed on Twitch.
The league also announced it will be utilizing a special PC build of NBA 2K18 for all of the games. The league build of the game aims to level the playing field for all of the participants and will be used for each game, from regular season to the league finals.
Dell will be providing Alienware Aurora computers and and 25-inch Hz gaming monitors, capable of displaying the game at great than 1080p resolution at 60 frames per second with the option to handle 4K. According to Polygon, here are the specs for the PCs and monitors that will be used:

Alienware Aurora running Windows 10 with an eighth-generation Intel Core i7-8700K processor, 16 GB DDR4 RAM at 2666 MHz and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1070 graphics card.  
Alienware AW2518H, a 1080p display with a 240 Hz refresh rate featuring Nvidia’s G-Sync

Most of the teams have agreed to this arrangement, with the one holdout being the Warriors Gaming Squad, which is affiliated with the Golden State Warriors. They are waiting to see if they can secure a deal that works for them as well as the Warrior's League of Legends team, the Golden Guardians.

Our Take
First the league lands Shaq and now this. The NBA 2K League is hitting the ground running with its various partnerships before the first draft pick has even been made. It's a great move on the part of Dell and the NBA 2K League to work together to bring the best possible version of the game for the first season. Considering the tryouts that were held this winter used PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles, making the move to PC ensures that players have the option to use whatever gamepad they're most comfortable and provides the fans with the best visual experience.

