
  Weekend Warrior – Easter Edition






Happy Easter weekend everyone! If you're not into all of the commotion with bunnies and eggs, that's ok too; it's still a great weekend to play some video games! Here's what some of the Game Informer staff is up to on this deceptively cold spring weekend.
Brian Shea (@BrianPShea) – And from seemingly out of nowhere… AN AVALANCHE OF GAMES! I did, in fact, finish Pokémon Omega Ruby last weekend, so now I’m playing through Far Cry 5 and MLB The Show 18. Both games have their flaws, but I’m enjoying them. In addition, I’d like to finish Yakuza Kiwami prior to the launch of Yakuza 6 next month, but that’s looking less and less likely at this point. Also, I might spend a lot of time looking at my phone this weekend, as I’ve been putting some significant time into Marvel Strike Force this week, and Pokémon Go launched its quest system today. Thankfully, I don’t have any plans this weekend, so I should have plenty of time!
Leo Vader (@leovader) – Last weekend I got ranked in Siege for the first time at Silver 2, which I was quite proud of! As of this writing I’m now down to a gentleman’s Bronze 1. Truly having some of my favorite gaming experiences ever planning and executing strategies with my group, so satisfying to spot the holes in an enemy team’s defense and capitalize on them. I love this game! In the off-hours, Far Cry 5’s Arcade Mode is surprisingly varied and fun to play co-op! Especially the Arcade Hero mode which sends you through random player-created maps one at a time for double XP, which earns you cash and perk points to use in the main game. Overall, a disappointingly cookie cutter game but I think what they have with the Arcade mode is really fun and novel. What can I say, I’m an Ubisoft boy!!! HAGS!!!!
Ben Hanson (@yozetty) – Hi everybody! Oh man oh man. This weekend I’d love to spend more time with Ni No Kuni II, it’s stupid easy but I’m having a wonderful time playing the game so far. Outside of that, maybe I’ll keep dabbling with Far Cry 5. Have a good weekend!
Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard) – I’m hoping to see Ready Player One this weekend, dig deeper into Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom, and do some Easter stuff – if it’s not snowing.
Robbie Key (@RobbieKeyV) – Copy and paste sleeping response from last week.
Jon Bowman (@MrGameAndWrite) – I'll be doing my best to avoid my family as much as I can, so what better way to do that than with video games? I was pretty excited to play Far Cry 5 in co-op until I learned that only the host's story progress is saved, but reading Leo's response to the Arcade mode makes me want to give it a shot. On the flip side, I also want to back to Destiny 2 and see how beastly the "Go Fast" update makes my beloved Dawnblade warlock. Maybe after that I can find a game to play that I won't have to try so hard to like, or just play some more Fortnite.
Suriel Vazquez (@SurielVazquez) – I’ve been playing Far Cry 5 with my brother this week, and while I’m not crazy about the game, it’s just fun enough that I’m going to keep at it. I’m also going to keep plugging away at the Assassin’s Creed Origins DLC. It’s bigger than I thought it was, but I’m starting to get slightly worn by the simple quest design. Finally, Dota Plus has done its job by hooking me on Dota 2 again, so I’ll probably squeeze in a few matches of that in as well.
Joey Thurmond (@DrJoeyStein) – I’m going to play A Way Out this weekend! While I don’t think it will be as revolutionary gameplay-wise as Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons was, I’m looking forward to seeing how the changing perspectives influence puzzles, traversal, and whatnot. I’ll also be taking some time to (actually) finish up a book, write up some drafts for articles in progress, and spend time with friends.
Matt Bertz (@mattbertz) – I’m going fishing and bear hunting in Montana – at least that’s my hope. Thus far, the overzealous hillbillies in Far Cry 5 keep getting in the way of my leisure activities, so my outdoorsman pursuits will likely come at the cost of several lives. All those white pickup trucks will have to find new owners, but it’s not my fault. They always shoot first! 
Imran Khan (@imranzomg) – I have fallen down a hole in Monster Hunter World again. The Deviljho Great Sword is way better than the Nergigante great sword I JUST MADE, so now I need that one. I’m also continuing to play Kirby Star Allies which, despite its sleepy difficulty (or lack thereof), it is still cute and charming.
Andrew Reiner (@Andrew_Reiner) – My weekend begins with the construction of a Barbie toy for my daughter, and ends with three hours of Overwatch on Sunday night. In between these two events, I hope to tackle as much Far Cry 5 as possible. I also want to see Ready Player One again, this time with my wife, who is just as big of a pop-culture nerd as me. 

            .

