
  June Cover Revealed: The Elder Scrolls Online






Long rumored and much anticipated, The Elder Scrolls Online is finally being unveiled in the June issue of Game Informer. In this month's cover story we journey across the entire land of Tamriel, from Elsweyr to Skyrim and everywhere in between.
Developed by the team at Zenimax Online Studios, The Elder Scrolls Online merges the unmatched exploration of rich worlds that the franchise is known for with the scale and social aspects of a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. Players will discover an entirely new chapter of Elder Scrolls history in this ambitious world, set a millennium before the events of Skyrim as the daedric prince Molag Bal tries to pull all of Tamriel into his demonic realm.
"It will be extremely rewarding finally to unveil what we have been 
developing the last several years," said game director and MMO veteran 
Matt Firor, whose previous work includes Mythic's well-received Dark Age
 of Camelot. "The entire team is committed to creating the best MMO ever
 made – and one that is worthy of The Elder Scrolls franchise."
An in-depth look at everything from solo questing to public dungeons 
awaits in our enormous June cover story – as well as a peek at the 
player-driven PvP conflict that pits the three player factions against 
each other in open-world warfare over the province of Cyrodiil and the 
Emperor's throne itself.
Come back tomorrow morning for a brief teaser trailer from Zenimax Online and Bethesda Softworks, and later on in the afternoon for the first screenshot of the game. Over the course of the month, be sure to visit our Elder Scrolls Online hub,
 which will feature new exclusive content multiple times each week. You'll meet the three player factions, see video 
interviews with the creative leads, and much more.
The Elder Scrolls Online is scheduled to come out in 2013 for both PC and Macintosh.
Click the images below for the full-size renderings of the cover, and continue on to find out what other surprises are in the issue and when it will arrive:

In addition to the world exclusive first look at The Elder Scrolls Online, the June issue of Game Informer brings you the first hands-on report on The Amazing Spider-Man from Activision and Beenox as well as new details on Lego Batman 2, Resident Evil 6, and Devil May Cry. 

Furthermore, Matthew Kato explores the role of the Entertainment Software Association plays in the video game industry, Matt Miller discusses the rise of new business models in gaming, and Joe Juba chronicles the new form that the once-thought-dead adventure genre has evolved into.
Look for the June issue to hit mailboxes and newsstands over the coming week or so, or click here to subscribe or convert your existing physical subscription and get access to the digital edition when it goes live on May 8th.

