
                                          Risen
                  				 Review


  German RPG Defies Expectations




Reviewed on PC

Also on
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Xbox 360

Publisher
Deep Silver

Developer
Piranha Bytes

Release
October 2, 2009

Rating
Mature

Balancing the kind of freedom that western RPG series (like The
Elder Scrolls) are known for with a directed narrative is tough. Risen
developer Piranha Bytes, best known for its long-running Gothic series,
has been doing this for a long time. This latest effort skillfully
walks the tightrope without the crippling bugs that Gothic has often
launched with, and delivers an RPG experience worth exploring.
As
a castaway on an island beset by all manner of supernatural threats,
players must find their own way through Risen’s hostile world. The
gameplay itself is very much third-person Oblivion, with
block-and-counter melee combat complemented by a selection of ranged
and magical options and a world stuffed full of items to grab. By
dedicating yourself to some mix of martial and magical study, you’ll
cut your own bloody path through the horrible events afoot. Risen does
an outstanding job of allowing players to feel smart by finding
alternate solutions around most challenges; do you turn a stolen
artifact in to the fascistic authorities, fence it for some much-needed
coin on the black market, or give it to the part-mobster part-patriot
resistance movement to earn their trust?
Each path has genuine
consequences; picking sides will deny you access to some vendors and
trainers while opening other, unforeseen doors. Avoiding conflict and
trying to find a middle ground is a viable path as well. Not ticking
anyone off has a certain value, but with no true friends you may find
yourself without valuable allies later on. I felt in charge of my own
destiny to an impressive degree in my time with Risen.
Risen
boasts dialogue, characters, and voice acting as believable as anything
in any form of media. Judicious use of curse words and adult themes
like prostitution and poverty grounds the story without being
sophomoric or tawdry. Most NPCs you meet act and react according to
their own personal goals – their personalities feel genuine, despite
being scripted along branching event trees. These well-written
interactions, along with a world and plotline that has sometimes-brutal
consequences, present a convincing illusion of a self-directed story.
One
scenario that you’re likely (but not guaranteed) to encounter along the
main plotline involves a set of sought-after ceremonial armor plates
that are in the possession of a few dockworkers in a downtrodden harbor
town. These guys have done you no wrong. They’re just trying to make a
buck to literally feed their families when they offer to sell you their
loot for a few hundred coins. You probably don’t have much cash,
though, and the people that want these armor plates can do you favors
well beyond the means of these poor schlubs. You can ambush them at
night and take the goods, making them and their friends justifiably
upset with you. You can come back later after busting your hump to make
the money they’re asking for by means honest or shady. Alternatively,
you can move on with your life and leave them to find another buyer.
The genius of Risen is that any of these approaches has advantages and
consequences. There is no “right” way to do things, just the way that
you choose, which in turn shapes your story moving forward.
For
all the artistry on display (and the presentation matches the fantastic
story), Risen’s lack of polish can be off-putting. Combat is poorly
balanced and executed, leading to a lot of quicksave/quickloads when
catastrophe strikes through no fault of your own. The interface works,
but leaves much to be desired when it comes to tracking the game’s many
intersecting quests. Character progression is nothing to envy;
assigning skill points and gaining levels is a bland approach to take.
Nobody will be awarding Risen any trophies on its technical merits. Is
that why you play an RPG, though? Or are you in it to explore a story
in which you have genuine input over the outcome? Risen can be awfully
frustrating on a technical level (though rarely broken, like Gothic 3
before it), but it’s a *** good RPG.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptExplore a high-fantasy island in distress in this third-person RPG
GraphicsEnvironments are second to none, with lush jungles, dirty cities, and foreboding caves providing fascinating high-adventure backdrops. Faces have a weird zombie thing going on, though
SoundThere’s voice for everything, and it’s good! The orchestral score fits the game’s various moods as well
PlayabilityThe timing-based combat is poorly balanced and barely engaging. Interacting with the world works beautifully, though
EntertainmentThis is the anti-Diablo – lame action, but great story, characters, and setting. Know what you’re getting into and you won’t be disappointed
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Risen

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

October 2, 2009 (PC), February 23, 2010 (Xbox 360), January 24, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

