
  December Cover Revealed – Monster Hunter: World






The Monster Hunter series has built up a devoted fan base over the years, with players gravitating toward its combination of methodical preparation, intense combat, and deep customization. Capcom is looking to further build that audience with Monster Hunter: World, a game that’s been built for consoles from the ground up. Thanks to that additional horsepower, the team has been able to reexamine fundamental parts of the series’ design. We visited Capcom’s offices in Osaka, Japan, and not only got extensive hands-on with the game to see those changes in action, but also got exclusive behind-the-scenes insight on how some of the game’s monsters and environments were designed.
We recently wrote about some of those changes, but we have a lot more to say about Monster: Hunter World. Our latest issue has 12 pages on the game, including exclusive art, blow-by-blow accounts of some of the game’s most intense hunts, and much more. This is one that fans of the series – as well as prospective players who have always been curious about Monster Hunter – won’t want to miss.
You can check out our cover by clicking the image below to open the full spread.

We have a month of exclusive online coverage planned for Monster Hunter: World, including video features, character and environmental breakdowns, and more.
Sorry, this video is not available
As always, the cover story is only part of this month’s issue. In addition to learning more about Monster Hunter: World, the December issue features an in-depth look at Sea of Thieves, based on Ben Reeves’ special visit to Rare’s UK offices. Kimberley Wallace got a lengthy look at Xenoblade Chronicles 2, and she brought back all the juicy details. Jeff Cork visited MercurySteam in Spain to see what happened behind the scenes of Raiders of the Broken Planet’s digital release, and learned more about their work on Castlevania: Lords of Shadow and a little game called Metroid: Samus Returns. We’ve also got our annual Holiday Buying Guide, filled with the latest gaming gear, gadgets, and other goodies you’ll want to give (and receive). That’s in addition to in-depth previews on upcoming games including Destiny 2: Curse of Osiris, Far Cry 5, Code Vein, UFC 3, and more.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. Can’t wait that long? The digital edition of the issue is available later today on PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

Click on the banner below to visit our special Monster
Hunter hub page. We'll regularly be adding new stories to it in the coming days
and weeks, so be sure to bookmark it and check back in throughout the month.

