
  Cover Reveal – Grounded






            Obsidian has made a name for itself within the RPG space, having worked on titles including Pillars of Eternity, Fallout: New Vegas, and The Outer Worlds. A small team within the studio wanted to do something a little different with Grounded, a survival game that takes place within the confines of a single backyard. If that sounds like a small chunk of real estate for a game, there's a twist: You've been shrunken down to about a centimeter, which makes encounters with aphids, ants, and – of course – spiders, potentially deadly.

For our latest cover story, we played Grounded for several hours and had lengthy discussions with the team. We learned how they landed on its Honey, I Shrunk the Kids-like setup, what working within that tiny scale meant for its design, and how they've adapted to their new working-from-home reality.

Of course, the extended look at Grounded is only part of the latest issue. Our other big feature is directly aimed at people who might not think there are many noteworthy games on the horizon. Over the course of more than 20 pages, we dive into 60 of the most interesting games that the staff is looking forward to. You're sure to recognize some of the heavy hitters, but our hope is that you'll find some more things to anticipate as we edge ever closer to next-gen.

Since many people are stuck at home right now, we've put together a few roundups to help pass the time, too. Whether you're looking for some great recommendations for getting into pen-and-paper RPGs, want to try streaming, or just need a fidget-spinner alternative to keep your hands busy, we've got you covered.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle later this week. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription, click here.

      Products In This Article

Grounded

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 27, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC), April 16, 2024 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

