
  Cover Reveal – Outriders






            People Can Fly is nothing if not consistent. Since it was founded back in 2002, the Polish studio has focused primarily on the shooter genre, starting with Painkiller. Over the years, they’ve adjusted and made more technically sophisticated games, such as Bulletstorm and Gears of War: Judgment. Their latest project, Outriders, is its most expansive release yet, taking a solid shooter framework and adding deep RPG systems, an engaging storyline, and loads of powerful (and occasionally bizarre) loot. We visited the Warsaw studio and got hours of hands-on time with Outriders, and we also got to know some of the people behind the game. There’s a lot to talk about, and it’s all in the next issue of Game Informer Magazine.

In Outriders, you play as a spacefaring refugee who has been exposed to a mysterious force known as the anomaly. It’s granted you powerful, weird abilities, such as the power to teleport and alter time, summon walls of flame, or even turn your skin to stone. These add fun new wrinkles to Outriders’ cover-based shooting, giving players the option of building a character that best suits the way they want to play. We spent extensive time playing as three of the available classes, getting a handle on what kinds of unique elements the Trickster, Pyromancer, and Devastator each bring to battle. Our new cover story dives into all of that and more in a massive 14-page feature.

Sorry, this video is not available

There's a lot more in the upcoming issue, too. We’ve got a behind-the-scenes look at Activision Blizzard’s big gamble in the new Call of Duty league, which just kicked off its inaugural season. Want to know more about Apple TV’s new game-centric series Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet? We talked with the cast and creators – including It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia’s Rob McElhenney – to learn how they worked to ensure they got the details right. We also have a roundup of some of the interesting emergent stories from online games, showing that some of the most memorable moments aren’t necessarily part of the script. That’s all in addition to the previews, reviews, and other features you’ve come to expect from Game Informer.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches Thursday for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle later this week. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription, click here.

For more on Outriders, click the banner below to check out our coverage hub. We’ll be updating it regularly over the next few weeks, so be sure to stop by and see what’s new. 

      Products In This Article

Outriders

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

April 1, 2021

Purchase
More Info

