
  February Cover Revealed: Lego Marvel Super Heroes






Some said a collaboration between Marvel and TT Games could never happen. Apparently, nobody told the studio behind the popular series of Lego games. After all, Warner Bros. is the parent company of both TT Games and DC Comics, which made many people assume that a Marvel Lego game was off the table. As our cover story shows, those people were wrong. Our February issue delves into Lego Marvel Super Heroes, a new game that’s the result of those unlikely partnerships. Our extended feature focuses on all things Lego, including the exciting new Marvel game, a deeper look at Lego City Undercover, and loads of information about the studio that started it all.

Above: Watch our trailer for the upcoming month of Lego Marvel Super Heroes coverage.
Elsewhere in the issue, we’ve got new previews of long-awaited games including Gears of War: Judgment and Crysis 3. Tim Turi also helps us celebrate Mega Man’s 25th anniversary with a four-page Classic GI feature. Twenty-five years? Has it really been that long? That’s all in addition to the reviews, columns, and other exclusive information you’ve come to expect from Game Informer.
Take a look at our cover below.

If you’re a print subscriber, you should receive your copy of the February issue in the next two weeks. There is, however, a quicker alternative if you’re impatient. Digital subscribers can access the PC/Mac, iPad, or Android editions around 2 p.m. Central Time. We’ll give you a heads up exactly when it does go live, so check back for updates on this post or follow us on Twitter. In the meantime, update your apps! 
If you aren’t yet a digital subscriber, you can convert your print subscription here or start a new subscription here. You can also purchase individual issues or subscribe via the appropriate apps. If you prefer a physical copy of the magazine, contact backissues@gameinformer.com.
Click the (Bruce) banner below to follow our month of online coverage. We’ll have additional exclusive information on Lego Marvel Super Heroes, including videos from the developers and more.

