
  June Cover Revealed – Days Gone






Does the world really need another zombie game? That’s one of the many questions we had before heading to Sony Bend Studio’s offices in Oregon to check out Days Gone. After spending a couple of days playing the game and gaining a deeper understanding of what the studio is trying to accomplish, we came back with an enthusiastic yes. You face a massive undead threat, but they’re just part of the dangerous open-world ecology. Virtually everything in this dark vision of the Pacific Northwest wants to separate you from your life. Fortunately, you have the tools you need to survive – including your fully upgradable motorcycle.
In the June issue of Game Informer, we packed 14 pages with exclusive details and developer insight from that trip, including an extensive look at how Sony Bend is working to breathe life not only into the zombie apocalypse, but open-world games in general.
Sony has shown off Days Gone at E3 over the past couple of years, but we didn’t fully appreciate what Sony Bend is doing until after we played it ourselves. We learned more about the game’s biker protagonist, Deacon St. John, and his broken world – and experienced some of the brutal lengths he’s willing to go in order to keep his friends safe. We also have a better understanding of how exploration, story, and action interlock to tell what could be one of the genre’s most consistent narrative experiences.

Click the image above for the full cover
Starting today, we’re kicking off a month of exclusive online content to show just what we’re talking about. We’ve got lengthy interviews with the game’s creators, hands-on impressions, and a massive amount of Days Gone gameplay footage to share with you.
Sorry, this video is not available
Of course, that’s not all that’s in our June issue. We have in-depth features about blockchain and how it might affect gaming, a look at how women are affecting game development, a deep dive into how studios balance competitive-multiplayer games, and more. We also feature all-new previews on highly anticipated games including Detroit: Become Human, GTFO, Dark Souls Remastered, and Shadow of the Tomb Raider.
Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. The digital edition of this issue launches today for PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Click the banner below to see what we’ve got planned for our month of Days Gone coverage, and bookmark the hub. New stories will be added every few days, so be sure to come back often to learn more about Sony Bend Studio’s next game.

