
  January Cover Revealed – Prey






Arkane built a name for itself over the years delivering games where player decisions intersect with carefully crafted worlds. If you played the Dishonored games and appreciated the way that the creators anticipated and rewarded your own unique way of playing, you know what we’re talking about. Today, we’re excited to announce that the studio’s latest game, Prey, is on our January cover. There’s only so much you can highlight during a stage demo – and there’s a lot to talk about when it comes to this exciting new sci-fi title. We’ve got the most up-to-date information based on exclusive interviews and access to the team and the game. If you haven’t paid attention to Arkane yet, this could be the game that changes that.
While all players start their adventure in Prey the same way – waking up on a space station overrun by bizarre aliens – the amount of choices available allow them to take on the threat how they see fit. Will you craft your version of protagonist Morgan Yu to battle the shapeshifting Typhon using traditional weapons? Would you prefer pushing your mind and body to its human limits with Neuromods, giving you superior strength and endurance as you work to reclaim Talos I? Or does the idea of taking alien abilities and turning them against your enemies seem like the way to go – even at the risk of making you a greater target from both survivors and the aliens? All these choices and more are viable options, similarly to how player decisions are rewarded in the Dishonored series.
In our cover story, we break down nearly everything we know about the game, including in-depth looks at the Talos I station, Morgan Yu, and the mysterious aliens that threaten everything. We also fully explore the game’s alternate history, in which the space race was a joint effort between the Soviet Union and the United States that led to massive advances in technology – and unforeseen consequences. And, of course, we explain why you might want to turn into a coffee cup in the first place.
There are two covers for this issue, featuring the male and female versions of Yu.

Click on the covers above and below to see the entire spreads, front and back.

Prey is coming to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2017. To learn more about what we have planned for our upcoming online coverage and to get a peek at what we saw during our visit to Austin, take a look at our Prey coverage trailer below or watch and share it on YouTube.
Sorry, this video is not available
The January issue has many other great features, as well. Capcom has been quiet about how, exactly, Resident Evil 7: Biohazard plays, and we have an extensive preview based on hours of hands-on time with the game. We also have an exclusive early look at Sniper Elite 4, showing off a new level in its Mediterranean setting. History buffs will get a kick out of our interview with Mortal Kombat co-creator Ed Boon, in which he reminisces about his decades in the games industry. And Elise Favis dives into some of the interesting ways game developers have been telling rich stories without the benefit of spoken or written dialogue.
Print subscribers can watch for their issue to arrive in the coming weeks, but you can read the full digital issue now on PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Our exclusive Prey coverage goes on throughout December, so keep checking our hub all month for features that dive into Arkane’s bold new game. We’ll take a look at some of the game’s biggest mysteries, go in-depth on the weapons and powers that Morgan Yu can access, and reveal a ton of exclusive art and screens from the game. We also have extensive interviews and video features from our studio visit, giving you the next best thing to a trip to Arkane’s Austin offices. Click the banner below to visit our hub, and be sure to check back regularly.

