
  July Cover Revealed – Far Cry 4






Far Cry has taken players on exciting adventures around the globe for more than a decade, but the franchise has lacked a formal itinerary. Little continuity between installments existed, leaving players without a clear sense of what the series was even trying to accomplish. With Far Cry 3, Ubisoft Montreal revitalized the game at its core, dropping players into a brutal open-world environment with a single goal: survive. With the latest entry, the team isn’t just moving the action on to the next island. Instead, they’ve been scrutinizing every aspect of the last game, honing what worked, scrapping what didn’t, and finding ways to incorporate elements that couldn’t make it in the first time around. 

Far Cry 4 shoves players into the fictional Himalayan nation of Kyrat, which has suffered under decades of a cruel and oppressive regime. The natural beauty belies simmering internal hostilities, and your character’s return will serve as a tipping point for the country’s future. Ubisoft Montreal is working to bring the best of Far Cry 3’s sandbox moments into the campaign, so players will feel just as excited by carrying the story forward as they did in clearing outposts and creating their own free-form moments.
Far Cry 4 has a lot to talk about, including new weapons, vehicles and modes of traversal, and loads of diabolical new combat maneuvers – and some big surprises, too. We touch on it all in our 12-page cover story, which is full of exclusive details, screens, and hands-on impressions of the game. To get a taste of our month of exclusive coverage on Far Cry 4, watch our coverage trailer below or watch and share it on YouTube.
Sorry, this video is not available

Click the above image to see the full cover spread
We’ve also got more info on Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes, including the first look at an exciting new playset and details on how Avalanche is expanding the Toy Box in unexpected ways. The issue is packed with more than a dozen pages of previews, too, including new looks at Sunset Overdrive, Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor, and Evolve. That’s in addition to fascinating features, like Matt Helgeson’s story on what happens to pro gamers when they retire, and Ben Reeves’ look at how there might be more to some of your favorite games than you’d ever imagined. 
If you’re a print subscriber, you should see your copy arriving in the next week or two, but it will be available digitally immediately after the final E3 conference on Monday, June 9, at 9 p.m. Pacific (on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting on Wednesday, June 11. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
We have a full month of Far Cry 4 coverage planned at gameinformer.com, including video features and interviews with the creative team, deeper dives on the game’s world, and much more. Be sure to keep visiting our hub throughout June for all the exclusive information. You can access it by clicking on the banner below.

