
  June Cover Revealed – Disney Infinity 3.0






Disney Infinity has become the gaming destination for nearly everything Disney. Avalanche Software’s first two installments put Disney, Pixar, and Marvel characters under one roof in story-based and freeform experiences. Now it’s time for Disney to give the Star Wars brand its due – Luke, Leia, Anakin, and more are joining the family with Disney Infinity 3.0, and we’ve got all the details in our mega-sized 16-page cover story.
Star Wars fandom is often divided between the two trilogies, and Disney Infinity 3.0 is catering to both audiences. Avalanche returns at the head of development while recruiting other studios to work on specific packs and systems. Ninja Theory’s (Devil May Cry, Heavenly Sword) pack-in playset, Twilight of the Republic, follows Anakin and Ahsoka as they fight to uncover who’s behind a freshly minted droid army. The story is set after Star Wars: Episode II, and it features land and space battles with plenty of melee combat. Obi-Wan, Yoda, and Darth Maul can enter the fray, too, as separately sold figures. Studio Gobo’s (Disney Infinity's Pirates of the Caribbean playset) Rise Against the Empire is a highlight reel of sorts that follows the events of the classic trilogy. Luke and Leia tangle with Darth Vader and his forces through memorable sequences, including the battle of Yavin as well as time on Hoth and Tatooine. Chewbacca, Han Solo, and Darth Vader figures will be available individually. Star Wars characters can cross over between the Star Wars playsets, too, which could lead to some canonically unsound (but fun) scenarios.
Disney Infinity 3.0 isn’t just tossing in a wookiee and a few new playsets and calling it a day, either. Avalanche has reexamined fundamental parts of its core game and is working with best-in-class developers to ensure that Infinity is as good as it can be. Ninja Theory has retuned melee combat, adjusting the timing and adding depth for advanced players. After all, you want to feel powerful when you’re wielding a light saber. Sumo Digital (Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing) has taken Infinity’s driving gameplay to the shop, tweaking the handling and drifting to provide a smoother experience. That’s key, considering one of the new Toy Box games is a kart racer. Those tweaks carry over into the Toy Box, which means legacy characters like Hulk and Mr. Incredible benefit as well.
Click the image above to see the full cover spread
Another Star Wars playset is coming this winter based on Star Wars: The Force Awakens. There are also sets based on Pixar’s Inside Out – with figures based on Joy, Disgust, Anger, Fear, and Sadness – and one from United Front Games (Sleeping Dogs) focused on Marvel characters including Hulkbuster Iron Man, Ultron, and more. Additional figures for Disney Infinity 3.0 include Mickey and Minnie Mouse, Sam Flynn and Quorra from Tron: Legacy, Mulan, Olaf, and more. The Toy Box is getting special attention, too, with the addition of an updated hub world, toys for new players and experts, and the addition of an all-new farming system. May the pitchforks be with you.
We’ve got the behind-the-scenes story on every facet of the game’s development, and you’re only going to read about it in Game Informer’s June issue. Disney Infinity 3.0 is coming to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, iOS, and Android this fall. The Starter Pack is priced at $64.99. A new batch of Power Discs are also coming, with a twist: They won't be in blind bags anymore. You can see what you're getting before you buy them.
To get a glimpse of what's to come in our full month of exclusive online content for Disney Infinity 3.0, check out our coverage trailer below or watch and share it on YouTube.
Sorry, this video is not available
There’s much more in the June issue, too. We have an in-depth preview at another big game on the horizon, Star Wars: Battlefront, as well as the exclusive first look at the new Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5. In addition to an interview with James “Clayster” Eubanks, the first Call of Duty Championships MVP, we have two Afterwords interviews on the critically acclaimed indie games Ori and the Blind Forest and Axiom Verge, and a surprising look at the far-reaching effects of China’s gaming scene. 
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week or two, but you can access it later today if you subscribe digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Throughout the month, we're revealing all manner of video interviews, written features on the world of Disney Infinity 3.0, a special-edition podcast, and much more. Click on the banner below to visit our Disney Infinity 3.0 hub and follow our coverage as it rolls out throughout the month.

