LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7


  What’s New In The Next LEGO Game?




            The original LEGO Harry Potter game was one of Traveller’s Tales’ better adventures, taking full advantage of the license and integrating magic spells into the formula. With LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7, the studio has packed even more spells and improvements into the world. Here’s a look at just some of what’s new:•    The game has an improved lighting engine, which allows for some impressive effects. Traveller’s Tales says it was disappointed by the way that the first game’s Luminosa spell appeared, but now it creates dynamic shadows and lighting effects on the surrounding surfaces. •    Leviosa is now mapped to the B button, which should alleviate one of the major issues from LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4. Now players don’t have to worry about accidently targeting the wrong thing when trying to use the telekinesis spell.•    Agamenti has been added to Harry’s arsenal, letting him spray the world (and even his friends) with a stream of water. The team originally added the spell to allow players to extinguish fires (spoiler: Hogwarts is burning), but then they realized it could be used in many other ways. It can fertilize plants, fill translucent green pieces to weigh them down and solve puzzles, or wash off coats of mud. Expect to use this one frequently.•    Ron’s owl is in the game, and he’s as competent at flying as you may expect. His helmet and flight goggles should at least protect the bumbling creature from causing any permanent damage to itself.•    Weasely Wizarding Wheeze boxes are in the game, delivering items like brick-shattering fireworks, portable swamps, and special sneakers that let players scale up surfaces, ala Robin in LEGO Batman.•    For the sequence where Hermione reads about the tale of the three brothers, the studio tried something new. This section plays out in a 2D platformer, with parallax-scrolling backgrounds accentuating the storybook presentation. It’s also filtered with a drab, grainy look, which makes it look even more otherworldly. The section has players taking on the role of those three brothers as they solve puzzles and outwit death himself.•    On the subject of death, Traveller’s Tales is addressing some of the character deaths, while keeping the same lighthearted tone. One character’s fatal plunge is represented by a pair of legs sticking out of the ground. Even though the books and films are grim, this one is still OK for the family.Overall, it looks like LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 is adding enhancements to what was already a strong entry in the series. Fans shouldn’t have to think too hard about picking this one up. If you’re among the unconverted, however, the subtle improvements may not be enough to sway you.Look for the game this holiday season.

Jeff Cork
Senior Editor
Jeff has spent countless hours using his thumbs to maneuver images on television screens.

Email
Twitter

