
  March Cover Revealed – Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens 






More than 10 years ago, Traveller's Tales became a household name thanks to its partnership with a toy company and a well-known film franchise. The last Lego Star Wars game came out nearly five years ago, but as fans know, TT Games hasn't been resting on its laurels. The company has worked with some of the biggest names around, creating co-op, family-focused games based on Marvel and DC comics, Jurassic Park, Harry Potter, The Lord of the Rings, and more. Now the company is going back to the universe where it all began, with the announcement of Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens.
We traveled to TT Fusion's offices in England to bring you the exclusive details on the game. While there are plenty of familiar things – the whimsical humor, block-bashing gameplay, and mix of Lego and realistic environments – the team has come up with a few exciting twists. Players can forge their own paths with the new multibuild system, which adds an element of player choice to the brick-building sections. Keeping with The Force Awakens' reliance on blaster action, TT Fusion has introduced new cover-based sections that let you see the ranged battles from a new perspective. 
The most exciting thing about the game, however, is that Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens features not only gameplay based on the movie, but also side content that gives fans background information on how some of those events came into being. Stay tuned for more information on that tantalizing prospect.
To mark the event, we've got a pair of covers, celebrating Rey and the good guys and Kylo Ren and his goons. Click the images to see larger versions of both covers. 

Sorry, this video is not available
Above: Watch our coverage trailer (or watch and share it on YouTube) to see a tease of the month of exclusive content that can be found at gameinformer.com/forceawakens.
The March issue has much more going on than games with blocks based on blockbusters. If you've been interested in learning more about League of Legends, PC editor Dan Tack has a great guide for beginners who want to start watching tournaments, including the big names and what to look out for. Fighting fans will get a kick out of Brian Shea's Street Fighter V feature, which takes a behind-the-scenes look at some of the characters and what inspired their creation. Hyper Light Drifter has captivated since we first saw it a few years ago, and Kyle Hilliard has an extensive, exclusive look at the retro-styled indie release. And while it might be the slow time of year for games at the moment, spring is going to be busy. Learn about what's ahead in our massive guide to the games of spring.
Sorry, this video is not available
Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens arrives on June 28, but you don't have to wait nearly that long to learn more about it. Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week or two, but it will be available later today if you subscribe digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here. To create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
We've got an entire month of additional Lego coverage, if the 12-page cover story wasn't enough for you. Check out our hub throughout the month for exclusive features and videos, including how it expands the lore of the films, a look at developer TT Fusion, in-depth features on animating the heroes (and villains), and much more. Click the banner below to visit the hub.

