
  What's In Batman's Belt?






Aside from his distinctive cowl, Batman’s most iconic costume element is his utility belt. As the world’s greatest detective, Batman has to take a variety of gadgets and gizmos to investigate scenes and solve crimes. And while he does lurk in the shadows, the Dark Knight doesn’t shy away from battle—requiring specialized equipment to help level the playing field when surrounded by nameless goons or supervillians.
Bruce Wayne rotates out the contents of his utility belt depending on what circumstances require, but here are some of Batman’s most commonly used gizmos, and which games they’ve appeared in, too. We don't know which, if any, of these Batman will be bringing along to Arkham City, but we can speculate the possibilities by examining his most consistent contraptions.Bat-cuffsOnce Batman’s temporarily incapacitated a thug, it makes sense to make more of a long-term commitment. Bat-cuffs are slipped onto a bad guy’s hands, where they have to be cut off by authorities. They’re kind of like the disposable plastic hand restraints used by police during large-scale operations, though these are made of diamond-encrusted nylon and steel.Featured In: Batman: Dark TomorrowFirst Aid KitSometimes you get hurt in the field and there’s no time to get back to the Batcave. To be fair, this is probably a problem specific to Batman. Using the medicines and tools in his first-aid kit, Bats can temporarily patch himself up before heading back home. In games, being able to restore health is critical, for obvious reasons.Featured In: Batman: Vengeance, Batman: Dark Tomorrow
BatarangsThe
Batarang is Batman’s bread and butter. The bat-shaped projectile is
typically thrown by hand, though how it behaves afterward can vary
wildly. Sometimes they come back like boomerangs. Other time, Batarangs
take one-way trips on their way to stun or disarm enemies. It’s also
one of the most common items in Batman’s video-game toolbelt, appearing
in nearly every game he’s been in.Featured In: Batman,
Batman: The Caped Crusader, LEGO Batman, Batman: Return of the Joker,
Batman: The Animated Series, Batman Begins, Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu,
Batman: Vengeance, Batman: Chaos in Gotham, Batman: Dark Tomorrow,
Batman: Arkham Asylum, The Adventures of Batman & Robin, Batman
Returns
BatlightIt’s a flashlight. There’s not much else to this gadget, though it’s pretty handy to have around.Featured In: Batman: Dark Tomorrow, The Adventures of Batman & RobinBat Goo GunThis device does what it sounds like; it fires a blast of sticky goo to contain Batman’s foes. Insert joke here. (Don’t confuse this with the Arkham Asylum’s explosive gel; this is just as viscous, but it doesn’t blow up.)Featured In: Batman Forever

Night Vision Bat-GogglesBatman may have modeled his appearance after a bat, but he lacks the flying mammals’ sonar abilities. Bruce Wayne doesn’t let things like that get in his way though, using his money to develop special glasses that allow him to see in the dark. Since he spends much of his time cloaked in night, it was probably a good investment.Featured In: Batman: Arkham Asylum, Batman: Dark Tomorrow, The Adventures of Batman & RobinLock PickBatman isn’t always an invited guest, so sometimes he has to improvise.Featured In: Batman Begins, Batman: Dark Tomorrow

 Grapple GunBatman’s grapple gun is another of the
character’s calling cards. This gas-powered tool fires a hook that can
be attached to objects high above, allowing Batman to scale walls,
cross gaps, or rocket upward to safety. It’s a navigation tool that’s
frequently used in games, too.Featured In: Batman, LEGO
Batman, Batman: The Animated Series, Batman Begins, Batman: Vengeance,
Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu, Batman: Chaos in Gotham, Batman: Dark
Tomorrow, Batman: Arkham Asylum, The Adventures of Batman & RobinMiniature smoke grenadesSometimes, even Batman has to make a hasty retreat. When he does, these portable smokescreens make it easy to disappear. They’re also great to drop into crowds of goons before attacking. Whether he uses them defensively or offensively, one thing’s for certain: Batman uses them.Featured In: Batman Begins, Batman: Dark Tomorrow, Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu, Batman Forever Stun grenadesAnother trick up Batman’s rubberized Kevlar-reinforced woven steel mesh sleeve involves his stun grenades. They work just like they sound—pop one off in a crowd and watch the bad guys stagger around in a daze. At that point they’re easy marks for the Bat-cuffs or a few extra smacks.Featured In: Batman Begins, Batman: Rise of Zin Tzu, Batman Forever

