WWE 2K17


  Season Pass Includes New And Old Superstars, Moves, More




Publisher 2K has revealed its DLC plans for the upcoming WWE 2K17, which include retro wrestlers such as The Fabulous Freebirds, up-and-coming Superstars, and some new moves and customization options. You can buy them a la carte if you like, but a season pass is coming as well.
The season pass is priced at $29.99, and includes the following DLC, which will be coming out starting late 2016 and running through 2017. Check out the details below, with text from 2K.
Accelerator 

Players will gain access to all unlockable content available at launch in the game’s VC Purchasable section (excluding downloadable content)
Players can also decide the overall rankings and attribute levels for all playable characters throughout the life of the product
The Accelerator will be available for $4.99.

 Future Stars Pack 

Playable WWE and NXT Superstars: Austin Aries, Karl Anderson, Luke Gallows, Mojo Rawley and Tye Dillinger
The Future Stars Pack will be available for $8.99. 

Hall of Fame Showcase 

Playable matches include: 

Cactus Jack and Diamond Dallas Page vs. The Fabulous Freebirds (Jimmy Garvin and Michael “PS” Hayes) (WCW Saturday Night 1992)
The Fabulous Freebirds (Buddy Roberts and Michael “PS” Hayes) vs. Kerry and Kevin Von Erich (WCCW 1986)
Ivory vs. Jacqueline (SmackDown 2000)
Sting (gold and black tights) vs. Ric Flair (Clash of Champions 1988)
Sting (n.W.o. Wolfpac ring gear) vs. Bret Hart (WCW Halloween Havoc 1998)
Papa Shango vs. The Godfather (Dream Match)
Big Boss Man (with Albert) vs. The Big Show (Armageddon 1999)

The Hall of Fame Showcase will be available for $9.99. 

Legends Pack 

Playable WWE Legends: Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake, Eddie Guerrero, Greg “The Hammer” Valentine, Sycho Sid, and Tatanka
The Legends Pack will be available for $8.99. 

MyPlayer Kick Start (PS4 system and Xbox One Exclusive) 

Players will gain access to unlock and boost created Superstar ratings and attributes made available at launch as part of the game’s MyCareer mode
Players can also unlock all clothing made available at launch that provides attribute boosts in MyCareer
MyPlayer Kick Start will be available for $9.99. 

New Moves Pack 

Explore a wide variety of new in-game moves, including the Swingout Neckbreaker (made popular by current WWE Raw Women’s Champion Charlotte); the Elbro Drop (made popular by WWE Superstar Zack Ryder); the Face Wash Combo (made popular by NXT Superstar Samoa Joe; and the TJP Clutch (made popular by current WWE Cruiserweight Champion T.J. Perkins)
The New Moves Pack will be available for $3.99. 

NXT Enhancement Pack (PS4 system and Xbox One Exclusive) 

Playable NXT Superstars: Apollo Crews, Nia Jax, and Shinsuke Nakamura
Players will earn a 50 percent boost in points while competing at NXT during MyCareer
The NXT Enhancement Pack will be available for $9.99. 

NXT Legacy Pack (PS3 system and Xbox 360 Exclusive) 

Playable NXT Superstars: Apollo Crews, Nia Jax, and Shinsuke Nakamura
The NXT Legacy Pack will be available for $4.99. 

      Products In This Article

WWE 2K17

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

October 11, 2016

Purchase
More Info

