
  Take Some Time Off In April For The Release Of Vacation Simulator






After a brief announcement at The Game Awards in 2017, Vacation Simulator, the follow-up to the hugely popular Job Simulator, has finally got a release date and a slew of new information. For those of you tired of waiting for this vacation, it's not far off. The game is releasing in just over a month on SteamVR and Oculus for $29.99 and the PSVR version is coming sometime this summer.

Along with the news of when you can immerse yourself in the simulation, the developers, Owlchemy Labs, also released a trailer showcasing the different locales you'll get to lounge around in on Vacation Island: the beach, forest, mountain, and resort.

Sorry, this video is not available

In the year 2060, the robots have built this simulation to better understand what humans do when they aren't working. To that end, Vacation Island comes equipped with plenty to see and do. Owlchemy gave a run down of what to expect:

Experience Vacation Island, your destination for optimal relaxation and/or efficient memory-making!
Customize a virtual YOU for picture-perfect selfies!
Wave to interact with a colorful cast of Bots!
Enjoy RECREATION beyond the theoretical limit in immersion-inspiring destinations!
Splash in the silicon sea and bask in simulated sunlight, all without getting sand in your… hands!
Get lost connecting with your roots, nodes, and branches… then get actually lost on a hike!
Elevate your ice-sculpting skills to new heights and reach peak cozy by knitting mittens for a snowhuman!
Exist in a comfortable, all-inclusive VR experience — free of motion sickness AND seasickness
The game is nearly out, but it's nice to see that the game looks to be retaining some of the signature charm that Job Simulator was known for. While you wait, check out our review of Job Simulator to see what we thought.

      Products In This Article

Vacation Simulator

Platform:

PlayStation VR2, PlayStation VR, PC

Release Date:

April 9, 2019 (PlayStation VR, PC), February 22, 2023 (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

