
  Limited Edition Of Darksiders Genesis Includes Exclusive Board Game, Darksiders: The Forbidden Land






For the most hardcore of Darksiders fans, THQ Nordic is offering two impressive limited editions of their upcoming game, Darksiders Genesis. The Collector's Edition includes a statue, art book, and plenty of other goodies. The Nephilim Edition includes all of that, plus a fully fledged dungeon-crawling board game called Darksiders: The Forbidden Land.

The Forbidden Land features an original story where you and up to four other players can team up for a dungeon-crawling adventure. You take the roles of the Four Horsemen, who all have asymmetrical player abilities: War, Death, Fury, and Strife. The fifth player is able to assume the role of game master, strategizing for the Horsemen's enemies and adding a new layer of depth to the game.

Darksiders Genesis: Nephilim Edition will include the game itself, the Forbidden Land board game, a Strife figurine, a steelbook case, art book, soundtrack, and sticker sheet.

THQ Nordic says Darksiders: The Forbidden Land includes the following:

61 pre-painted miniatures – including War, Death, Fury, and Strife.
124 tokens
36 multi-hex-space modular boards
423 cards
4 player boards
Custom dice
Rulebook
Campaign book

The standard edition of Darksiders Genesis will cost $40. The Collector's Edition, which includes everything but Darksiders: The Forbidden Land, will cost $200, while the Nephilim Edition will cost $380, valuing the board game around $180. Darksiders: The Forbidden Land is not available for purchase outside of Darksiders Genesis: Nephilim Edition. 

Both editions are available for pre-order on all platforms, except Google Stadia.

Darksiders Genesis will launch sometime later this year on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC, and Google Stadia. For more on the game, check out our exclusive hands-on time with Strife at E3, or our impressions of the game's co-op when we visited developers Airship Syndicate in Texas. 

      Products In This Article

Darksiders Genesis

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

December 5, 2019 (Stadia, PC), February 14, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

