
  A Classic Mountain Dew Game Fuel Flavor Returns With Exclusive Halo Infinite Rewards 






            Mountain Dew Game Fuel Citrus Cherry, the flavor that debuted in 2007 alongside the release of Halo 3, is back in stores starting today for a limited time and bottles and cans offer exclusive rewards for Halo Infinite. Plus, a new Game Fuel Mystic Punch flavor is in stores and offers exclusive Diablo IV rewards. 

Alongside the release of these sodas, Mountain Dew is also celebrating the return of Game Fuel with a custom Halo Infinite Forge-made map called Critical Dewpoint, which "features easter eggs for die-hard Halo" fans to find throughout. Critical Dewpoint will be part of a Halo 3 Refueled playlist in the game that launches November 14 alongside Season 5's Operation: Combined Arms. 

This playlist will feature Critical Dewpoint and seven other maps inspired by Halo 3 classics, remade for Halo Infinite:

Sylvanus (reimagination of Guardian)
Domicile (reimagination of Construct)
The Pit (remake of The Pit)
Isolation (remake of Isolation)
High Ground (remake of High Ground)
Cliffside (reimagination of Blackout)
Banished Narrows (reimagination of Narrows) 

Here's a look at the in-game Halo Infinite rewards you can earn from Game Fuel Citrus Cherry: 

For more about Mountain Dew and Xbox's Halo collaboration, head to the Halo Gear Shop here. 

Citrus Cherry isn't the only Game Fuel flavor available starting today, though. Mountain Dew has also released a new Game Fuel flavor called Mystic Punch and rewards include the Amethyst Spellbook, Amethyst Sledgehammer, Amethyst Slasher, and Amethyst Crossbown. You can check out each in the gallery below: 

Both of these limited-edition flavors are available in stores in 12-packs of 12 oz cans and single 20 oz bottles, starting today, November 6. 

For more, read Game Informer's Diablo IV review and then read our Halo Infinite review. 

Do you have memories drinking Game Fuel? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

