
  Activision Teases Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare III Reveal Next Week






            Activision is teasing a Call of Duty: Modern Warfare-related reveal next week. 

This lighthearted tease, which you can see below, hints that the next Call of Duty is another Modern Warfare, even though 2022’s Call of Duty was Modern Warfare II. However, if you’ve been paying attention to the Call of Duty space, it’s no surprise that this year’s Call of Duty is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III. It’s leaked in various ways already, including on special Monster energy drink packaging (thanks, CharlieIntel). 

Jokes on you, real key art here.

We’ll share our artistic abilities and even more next week. pic.twitter.com/UCCexH7IMr
— Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) August 2, 2023

As you can see, the official Call of Duty Twitter account says, “We’ll share our artistic abilities and even more next week,” alongside fake key art poking fun at redacted Modern Warfare III information leaking ahead of its official reveal. This aligns with a recent Modern Warfare II Season 5 blog post, which announced that the next Call of Duty would be revealed in-game through a “special event.” 

“Drop into Call of Duty: Warzone to experience the worldwide reveal for Call of Duty 2023 in a limited-time event,” the blog post reads. “Join the ranks of Shadow Company to take on Konni forces and secure the chemical weapon threat before it’s too late. Stay tuned to Call of Duty channels for more information about the upcoming reveal.” 

It seems that reveal is happening next week, although when or how remains unclear. Interestingly, the reveal of a new Call of Duty releasing this year contrasts with reports from early last year stating Call of Duty would skip 2023. 

In the meantime, read how Lara Croft, Nicki Minaj, Snoop Dogg, and 21 Savage are coming to Modern Warfare II and Warzone, and then read Game Informer’s Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II review. Check out this story about how Sony signed a 10-year agreement with Microsoft to keep Call of Duty on PlayStation after that. 

Are you excited for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

October 28, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

