
  Alien: Rogue Incursion VR Gameplay Revealed In New Trailer






            Developer Survios has released the first look at gameplay in its upcoming VR game, Alien: Rogue Incursion, and it turns out, exploring a seemingly abandoned  facility in VR looks as terrifying as you'd expect.

The trailer aired during today's PlayStation State of Play as the game is coming to PS VR2, but it's also coming to Meta Quest 3 and Steam (for other PC VR devices) this holiday season. In the trailer, we get a few glimpses of some Xenomorphs, the tracking device we'll be using to avoid said Xenomorphs, and a look at some pods that indicate we might be fighting more than one. 

Check it out for yourself in the Alien: Rogue Incursion gameplay trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

In a new PlayStation Blog post, Survios chief product officer TQ Jefferson explains that Alien: Rogue Incursion was developed from the ground up in Unreal Engine 5. Jefferson also shares that the "high tension shooter" tasks players with exploring an "overrun facility on the inhospitable planet Purdan." 

"Dynamically spawning and pathing with countless unique possibilities, even we couldn't tell you exactly where and when each Xenomorph will strike, let alone what strategies it might use or if it'll bring some friends," the blog post reads. "While heart-pounding combat is the core of Alien: Rogue Incursion, grabbing your pulse rifle and blasting your way out of every situation is not always the best strategy. 

"Constantly hunted by unpredictable and resourceful Xenomorphs, players will often find creativity and a level head to be their greatest weapons, especially when it comes to leveraging the environment to their advantage." 

Alien: Rogue Incursion hits VR this holiday season. 

Are you going to check out Alien: Rogue Incursion later this year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Alien: Rogue Incursion

Platform:

PlayStation VR2, Quest 3, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

