
  All 8 Episodes Of Amazon's Fallout TV Series Now Dropping One Day Earlier 






            Amazon Studios' Fallout TV series will premiere one day early, with all eight episodes now hitting Prime Video on April 10 at 6 p.m. PT/9 p.m. ET. The series was originally due out on April 12 but Amazon announced it had moved the launch day up to April 11 alongside a new look at the show. Now, Amazon has moved the date up one more day, meaning you can check out this live-action adaptation of the post-apocalyptic wasteland tomorrow. 

Walton Goggins, who plays The Ghoul, announced this news during a new Fallout commercial that aired last night (April 8) during the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship Game. After the first episode airs at 6 p.m. PT/9 p.m. ET tomorrow, the other seven episodes will be available for viewing exclusively on Prime Video in more than 240 countries and territories worldwide. 

If you haven't yet seen it, check out the latest Fallout trailer for a new look at the show: 

"Based on one of the greatest video game series of all time, Fallout is the story of haves and have-nots in a world in which there's almost nothing left to have," a press release reads. "Two hundred years after the apocalypse, the gentle denizens of luxury fallout shelters are forced to return to the irradiated hellscape their ancestors left behind – and are shocked to discover an incredibly complex, gleefully weird, and highly violent universe waiting for them." 

Amazon Studios, which is behind series like The Boys and Invincible, is producing Fallout alongside Kilter Films and executive producers Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy. Nolan directed the first three episodes of Fallout. 

Fallout premieres on Prime Video on April 10. 

For more, check out the teaser trailer for Fallout released back in December. After that, read Game Informer's reviews of Fallout 4 and Fallout 76. 

Are you checking out Fallout tomorrow? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fallout 76

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 14, 2018

Purchase
More Info

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

