
  Always-Online Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Already Offline On Day One Due To Bug






            Update, 1/31/24:

Developer Rocksteady Studios' new live-service multiplayer shooter, Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League, went live for Deluxe Edition players on January 30. For those playing in regions like New Zealand, the game went live on January 29 here in the states (but it was January 30 for that region). Those first players were met with an unfortunate "story completion" bug that caused Rocksteady to take the game offline to fix. That fix took hours, leaving those who paid for the Deluxe Edition, which is $30 more than the standard edition, unable to play the game at all as Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice Leauge is an always-online game. 

To make up for that issue, Rocksteady has gifted Deluxe Edition players 2000 LuthorCoins, which is roughly $20 of in-game currency that can be used to purchase cosmetics in the in-game store, as reported by VideoGamesChronicle. 

"Thank you for being one of our first console players during early access of Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League," an in-game message from Rocksteady for Deluxe Edition players reads, according to VGC. "We recognize that you've been patient with us during our initial launch server updates and we'd like to show our appreciation for your patience with a special gift of 2000 LuthorCoins. Thank you again!" 

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League has been out since January 30 for Deluxe Edition players. The standard edition launches this Friday, February 2, on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. 

The original story continues below...

Update, 1/30/24:

Yesterday, developer Rocksteady Studios took its new live-service multiplayer shooter set in the Batman: Arkham universe, Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League, offline after some Early Access players encountered a "story completion bug." Rocksteady said yesterday that in order to fix the issue, it needed to take the always-online game offline. 

Roughly six hours later, the studio said it identified the problem causing the bug, noting, "We hope to implement it and have the game back online as soon as possible." That was the last thing Rocksteady said about the bug, but players that purchased the Deluxe Edition, which allows you to jump in 72 hours early, were able to hop back in at some point yesterday. 

Today, Rocksteady announced scheduled maintenance and it lasted about an hour and a half.

Our scheduled maintenance has been completed.#SuicideSquadGame is back online, so grab your Squad and get back to Metropolis!
— Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League (@suicidesquadRS) January 30, 2024

All of this is to say Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League is back online and playable if you purchased the Deluxe Edition. 

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on Friday, February 2. 

The original story continues below...

Original Story, 1/29/24:

Developer Rocksteady Studios has taken its new live-service multiplayer shooter set in the Batman: Arkham universe, Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice Leauge, offline after Early Access players hit a "story completion" bug. While the standard edition of the game doesn't hit PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC until this Friday, February 2, players who purchase the more expensive Deluxe Edition, which costs $99.99 compared to the Standard Edition's $69.99 price tag, can jump in three days early. 

That's still too early for those in the U.S. to jump in and play, but for players in places like New Zealand, that Early Access period is live. Or rather, it was, before Rocksteady took the always-online game offline.

"We're aware that a number of players are currently experiencing an issue whereby upon logging into the game for the first time, they have full story completion," a tweet from the game's official X (formerly Twitter) account reads. "To resolve this issue, we will be performing maintenance on the game servers. During this time, the game will be unavailable. We expect this to take several hours and will update once we have more information. We apologize for the inconvenience." 

We’re aware that a number of players are currently experiencing an issue whereby upon logging into the game for the first time, they have full story completion.

To resolve this issue, we will be performing maintenance on the game servers.

During this time the game will be…
— Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League (@suicidesquadRS) January 29, 2024

While Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League is not the first live-service, always-online game to run into issues that cause it to go offline, it's still a mega bummer for players so excited to check it out they paid an additional $30 to do so 72 hours early. Hopefully Rocksteady and publisher Warner Bros. Interactive find a way to compensate those affected by this move. 

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Deluxe Edition preorders go live on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on January 30, while the game will go live for everyone else who purchases it on February 2. 

For more, check out this Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League trailer, and then read Game Informer's thoughts on the game after going hands-on with it. After that, check out this first look at Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League's Joker, who will be playable in Season 1 this March. 

Are you hopping into Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League this week? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

