
  Amid Industry-Wide Layoffs, Capcom Is Increasing Starting Salary In Japan By More Than 25 Percent






            Amid industry-wide layoffs that have already affected more than 6,700 people in 2024 alone (on top of 10,000 laid off in the games industry last year), Capcom has announced it is increasing its starting salary in Japan by more than 25 percent. Plus, those already working at the company behind games like Street Fighter 6, Dragon's Dogma 2, and the Resident Evil franchise will be getting an increase in their salaries as well. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

This news comes by way of VideoGamesChronicle, which reports that the existing pay for "new graduate hires" is around $1,560 per month but, starting in Capcom's 2025 fiscal year, that will change to around $2000 a month, representing a more than 25 percent jump in pay. Existing salaries will be bumped up by more than 5 percent, on average, in Capcom's 2024 fiscal year, according to VGC, and current employees will also get a "one-time special payment," as "an investment in the people who support the future of the company." 

"With the increase in starting salary, Capcom is pursuing further investment in human capital and the acquisition of exceptional talent," Capcom writes in a statement, according to VGC.

The publication notes Capcom increased it salaries by 30 percent in 2022 with a new bonus system tied to the company's overall business performance. Which, given Capcom's excellent run over the years, including Street Fighter 6, Resident Evil 4 (remake), Resident Evil Village, and more, those bonuses were likely great. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

For more, read Game Informer's Street Fighter 6 review to find out why it's one of our favorite fighting games in years, and then check out the reveal trailer for Monster Hunter: Wilds, which is due out sometime next year. After that, read Game Informer's Dragon's Dogma 2 impressions after going hands-on with it for a few hours. 

For more about Dragon's Dogma 2, which launches March 22 and is Capcom's next big release, check out the following stories: 

Dragon's Dogma 2 has just one save file to encourage exploration
Dragon's Dogma 2 main story campaign is about the same length as the first game
Dragon's Dogma 2 has an uncapped framerate, but no visual presets or modes on consoles

[Source: VideoGamesChronicle]

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Street Fighter 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

