
  Anakin, Padme, Darth Maul And More Join Fortnite In New Star Wars Event






            It's almost May 4, otherwise known as Star Wars Day on May the 4th (be with you), and like every year, Fortnite has a special event happening in-game to celebrate. 

This year, the focus is on the Star Wars prequels and the characters within them, like Anakin Skywalker, Padme Amidala, Darth Maul, various Clonetroopers, and more. Some of these skins will be available to earn by completing in-game Star Wars quests while others are available for purchase from the Fortnite Item Shop. 

Let's break down everything going on in this year's Fortnite x Star Wars event: 

This year's activities will be part of a questline called Find the Force. By completing Find the Force quests, you can unlock cosmetic and level-up rewards in a free reward track, including the Clone Trooper Outfit. However, you can also purchase a Premium Reward Track upgrade for additional rewards on top of those free track rewards, like the Darth Maul Outfit (and the Coruscant Guard Outfit immediately upon purchasing the Premium Reward Track upgrade). The Premium Reward Track upgrade costs 1000 V-Bucks and contains 11 unlockable rewards, with Darth Maul being the final reward. It also features the Wolf Pack Trooper Outfit and the Ahsoka's Clone Trooper Outfit. 

In the Fortnite Item Shop, you can purchase the Anakin Skywalker and Padme Amidala Outfits as well as the 501st Trooper and 212th Batallion Trooper Outfits. 

"Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Darth Maul await you on the Island in hologram form during Find the Force," the Fortnite blog about this event reads. "If you accept their offer to train you, you'll jump into a rift...then return wielding a lightsaber and new Force abilities. These Force abilities can be used while wielding your lightsaber, which remains in your inventory until you drop it, get eliminated, or the match ends." 

If you have the Force item in your inventory, you will be able to sprint faster and double jump with your lightsaber equipped, regardless of your trainer. If you accept Obi-Wan's training, you'll learn to use the Force to push objects and players away. If you accept Anakin Skywalker's training, you'll learn to use the Force to pull objects and players towards you. If you accept Darth Maul's training, you'll learn to use the Force to lift objects from the environment and hurl them at players. 

Training with Obi-Wan Kenobi will net you the green Jedi Padawan Lightsaber and Anakin Skywalker will net you a blue one. Darth Maul will get you the red Sith Apprentice Lightsaber. 

Alongside the new Clone Trooper Outfit, the DC-15 Blaster has been added to the weapon rotation on Fortnite's Battle Island. You can obtain it from Republic Chests scattered around the island and it's an assault rifle with high accuracy that excels at medium-to-long-range combat. 

The Find The Force quests are separated into three main sets, and each set is associated with a Star Wars prequel movie. If you complete twelve quests in a set, you earn a Sith Holocron. Unlock three of these and you'll receive the Sith Infiltrator Glider (Darth Maul's ship). 

"The Force Within" (Episode 1) quests are live right now. The "Begun The Clone Wars Have" (Episode 2) quests will go live at 9 a.m. ET on May 7, and the final batch, the "Fall Of The Republic" (Episode 3) quests, will go live at 9 a.m. ET on May 12. An epilogue set called "The First Galactic Empire" quests will go live at 9 a.m. ET on May 17. 

Epic Games says the Find the Force free reward track items, Premium Reward Track upgrade items, and the Sith Infiltrator Glider are not exclusive to this Find The Force event and they may become purchasable in the Item Shop at a later date. 

Starting May 4 at 11 a.m. ET, you will have the opportunity to earn the Coruscan'ts Pride Wrap by completing one of two Discord-related quests.

Head to the Fortnite blog for more information about that. You can also find more information about new and returning augments, changes to the game with this Star Wars update, and more in that blog. 

Are you jumping into Fortnite to complete these quests? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

