
  Animal Crossing: New Horizons Happy Home Paradise Paid DLC Announced, Launching Next Month 






            Nintendo has announced the Happy Home Paradise expansion for Animal Crossing: New Horizons, a paid DLC launching next month on November 5. 

This DLC was announced during today’s New Horizons direct, which brought with it tons of details about the game’s last major free update. Happy Home Paradise brings an archipelago to New Horizons that will serve as your villager’s site of work. There, you’ll work as a Paradise Planning designer coordinating “dream lifestyles” for other villagers in the game. 

Basically, you’ll be designing dream vacation homes for people on the archipelago. This includes helping them design their home’s exterior, their interior, their yards, their fences, their everything – if you’ve ever wanted to design more than just your own home, this expansion is for you. 

The goal is to make your client happy with their vacation home. You can do this by modifying the season and time of day to fit their personality, and then you’ll need to design their home accordingly. You can partition walls to create new spaces within already-existing rooms, and you can also add counters, pillars, and more. Players can incorporate different soundscapes to wrap up the entire design into one perfect harmonious living space, too. 

Another feature coming with Happy Home Paradise is the ability to polish items. Sometimes this simply cleans them up, but other times, it might create a new effect for that item. For example, polishing some flowers might bring butterflies to them. 

Nintendo says new furniture will be unlocked as you play the expansion, and it will be up to you to periodically check in on vacationers whose homes you designed to see if any of the newly-unlocked furniture might be a fit for them. This seems necessary to keep the client happy. 

Some characters might want a facility rather than a dream home. Nintendo showcased schools, restaurants, and classrooms as examples of these possible facilities. Plus, you can use the Happy Home Network to visit previous clients' homes and check out the designs of players from around the world. Using an online connection, you can even view their designs for inspiration. 

Some of the Happy Home Paradise features can be brought home to your own island, too. For example, design techniques such as the use of pillars or partition walls can be used in your own home. Plus, you can bring souvenirs back from your work archipelago to give to your neighbors, and over time, they’ll grow more and more interested until they one day ask you to design their dream vacation home. 

Happy Home Paradise launches on November 5, the same day as the last major free update for New Horizons launches. Head to Game Informer’s breakdown of that new update for more details. Happy Home Paradise can be purchased for $24.99, or, for those that subscribe to Nintendo Switch Online’s new expansion pack, the DLC will be included. Nintendo also revealed the price of its new Nintendo Switch Online expansion pack, and details about that can be found here. 

Will you be picking up the Happy Home Designer DLC? Let us know in the comments below!

            .

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley has been writing about games professionally for years. When he's not writing about games, he's playing them (hopefully). He desperately wants a PS5 patch for Bloodborne, too, and refuses to give up hope that one's on the way.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Animal Crossing: New Horizons

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 20, 2020

Purchase
More Info

