
  Assassin's Creed Valhalla: Dawn Of Ragnarok Wins First Ever Grammy For Best Video Game Score






            Last night's Grammy awards ceremony was the first ever to include a category for the best score soundtrack for a video game, and last year's Assassin's Creed Valhalla expansion, Dawn of Ragnarok, took home the win. 

More specifically, the DLC's composer, Stephanie Economou, won the Grammy for her score in the game. Her other credits include Netflix's Jupiter's Legacy and contributions to the scores and soundtracks of movies like The Martian, Mulan (2020), and more, as reported by Variety. The publication reports that Economou thanked "all of the people who fought tirelessly to bring this category to existence," thanking them for "acknowledging and validating the power of game music." 

Variety also reports that prior to this year's Grammy awards, video game scores and soundtracks were eligible in the show's score category but only earned one nomination in more than 20 years. That nomination went to Austin Wintory for his score in 2012's Journey. Wintory was nominated this year, this time for his Aliens: Fireteam Elite score, alongside Bear McCreary for Call of Duty: Vanguard, Christopher Tin for Old World, and Richard Jacques for Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy. 

Economou's Grammy was awarded during the main show's pre-show segment, hosted by Randy Rainbow, who might have not been familiar with Assassin's Creed Valhalla, if the way he announced the game's name last night is any indication. 

can’t stop laughing at this guy announcing the Grammy win for Assassin's Creed Valhalla pic.twitter.com/vz9bTVZFTX
— Wendell (@RhodeToLove) February 5, 2023

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Assassin's Creed Valhalla review and then read our impressions of its Dawn of Ragnarok expansion. 

[Source: Variety]

What video game score should win at next year's Grammys show? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Valhalla

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

