
  Assassin's Creed Shadows Reveal Trailer Confirms Dual Samurai And Shinobi Protagonists, Out This November






            After teasing its reveal earlier this week, Ubisoft has officially unveiled Assassin's Creed Shadows with its first cinematic trailer, revealing dual protagonists in the process. As many speculated, Shadows puts players in control of Japan's first African samurai, Yasuke (a real historical figure), and a female shinobi character, Naoe. It will be released on November 15.

This dual protagonist approach isn't too surprising given it's Ubisoft Quebec developing the game – it did the same with Kassandra and Alexios in 2018's Assassin's Creed Odyssey and Jacob and Evie Frye in 2015's Assassin's Creed Syndicate – but it's exciting nonetheless. According to the game's PlayStation preorder page, players can, "Switch seamlessly between two unlikely allies as you discover their common destiny," confirming you can control both in the story. The trailer also showcases the beauty and scale of the feudal Japan we'll be exploring in Shadows. 

Check it out for yourself in the Assassin's Creed Shadows reveal trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Elsewhere in the game's PlayStation preorder listing, Ubisoft says players can explore the "captivating open world of feudal Japan, from spectacular castle towns and bustling ports to peaceful shrines and war-ravaged landscapes," while adventuring through unpredictable weather, changing seasons, and reactive environments. The changing seasons line seems to indicate the narrative of Shadows could take place over a long period of time, or at least a year. 

As a shinobi Assassin, Naoe uses stealth to avoid detection and agility to confuse enemies whereas Yasuke, a legendary samurai, uses lethal precision and power. You unlock new skills, gear, and progression independently for each character. Plus, as you explore the world, you can create your own network of spies to be your eyes and ears across Japan, and different allies will have unique skills to help you accomplish missions. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"Create a fully customizable hideout for your growing shinobi league as you train your crew, craft new gear, interact with key characters, and choose your base's layouts, decorations, and accessories," the preorder listing reads. 

Here's another look at Yasuke and Naoe: 

Shadows is an exciting entry in the sprawling Assassin's Creed series. It's finally bringing players to feudal Japan, something the fanbase has wanted for years and years, and it's the next open-world mainline RPG installment since 2020's Assassin's Creed Valhalla. While last year's Assassin's Creed Mirage was quite enjoyable – read Game Informer's review here to find out why we gave it an 8 out of 10 – it was a throwback to the more linear worlds of the Assassin's Creeds of yesteryear; Shadows is the series returning to its newer open world format that began in 2017 with Assassin's Creed Origins. 

Assassin's Creed Shadows launches November 15, 2024, on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S,  Amazon Luna, PC (via the Ubisoft Store and Epic Games Store), and Mac (with Apple silicon via the Mac App Store).

For more about the series, head to Game Informer's Assassin's Creed Mirage hub for exclusive behind-the-scenes details, videos, and more. After that, check out Game Informer's ranking of the entire Assassin's Creed series. 

Are you excited for Assassin's Creed Shadows? Let us know which protagonist you're most excited about in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Shadows

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, Mac

Release Date:

November 15, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

