
  Assassin's Creed Valhalla’s Free Discovery Tour Mode Is Now Live






            Discovery Tour: Viking Age, an educational mode that takes players through historical locations and events in the world of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, is now live as a free update for those who already own the latest installment in the franchise. 

For those who don’t own Valhalla but are interested in checking out Discovery Tour, the mode can be purchased as a standalone experience on PC for $20 via either the Ubisoft Connect storefront or the Epic Games Store. Standalone versions for consoles are coming next year, according to Ubisoft. 

Valhalla’s Discovery Tour differs from the tours seen in Assassin’s Creed Origins and Odyssey in that they’re more narrative-focused than ever before, complete with quests to complete as you journey through Viking-controlled England, as noted by GameSpot. 

“[Discovery Tour: Viking Age] takes a new approach to how players explore history: instead of embarking on guided tours, they will assume the roles of different characters and take on quests, which aim to bring them closer to the material by putting them at the center of it,” a blog post from Ubisoft about the mode reads. “While following the narrative and completing the quests’ objectives, Discovery Tour: Viking Age players will have the opportunity to interact with Discovery Sites that each focus on an element of the culture and traditions of Vikings and Anglo-Saxons in the Viking Age.” 

Ubisoft says these Discovery Sites feature images of items from the museum partners the company worked with to bring historical and archaeological accuracy to Valhalla and its Discovery Tour mode. 

If you already own Valhalla, you can download the latest update to gain access to Discovery Tour: Viking Age on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Stadia, and Amazon Luna. 

For more about Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, check out our thoughts on the game in Game Informer’s Assassin’s Creed Valhalla review and then read our thoughts on its latest expansion, The Siege of Paris. Check out this story about how Netflix’s Assassin’s Creed TV series will be written by a writer from Die Hard after that. 

[Source: GameSpot]

Will you be jumping into Assassin's Creed Valhalla's Discovery Tour: Viking Age mode? Let us know in the comments below!

            .

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley has been writing about games professionally for years. When he's not writing about games, he's playing them (hopefully). He desperately wants a PS5 patch for Bloodborne, too, and refuses to give up hope that one's on the way.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Valhalla

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

