
  Assassin's Creed Mirage Is Real And Ubisoft Has More To Share About It Next Week






            After growing to become one of the most-leaked games in franchise history, Ubisoft has confirmed that Assassin's Creed Mirage is real and we'll be learning more about it next week.

That's because the publisher is hosting a Ubisoft Forward on Sept. 10 at Noon P.T./3 p.m. ET, which has been previously advertised as the event where we'll learn more about the future of Assassin's Creed and more. It seems Assassin's Creed Mirage will be the big highlight of the show, but it's possible we learn more about Assassin's Creed Infinity, which is Ubisoft's in-development Assassin's Creed live-service platform. We might even learn about non-Assassin's Creed games, too. 

Assassin's Creed Mirage is the next Assassin's Creed game.

We can't wait to tell you more on September 10 at Ubisoft Forward: 9PM CEST | 12PM PT. #AssassinsCreed pic.twitter.com/92LoEcrrWs
— Assassin's Creed (@assassinscreed) September 1, 2022

If rumors and leaks about Assassin's Creed Mirage are correct, we're in for a game set in Baghdad with Basim, a major character from Assassin's Creed Valhalla (if you know, you know), as the protagonist. Leaks indicate that he's not yet an assassin at the start of Mirage and instead, a thief who comes to discover the Hidden Ones, which later become the Assassin's order in the series. Rumors also point to this game being a much more stripped back take on the franchise, feeling more like older games in the series rather than the massive and sprawling open-world RPGs of late.

The potential for this to feel like a bridge between classic Assassin's Creed and new Assassin's Creed has me incredibly excited. I love the new games, especially Origins and Odyssey, but they're downright exhausting. An Assassin's Creed game I can beat in less than 80 hours? Sign me up!

In the meantime, read Game Informer's ranking of every Assassin's Creed game and then catch up on everything announced during the Assassin's Creed 15th Anniversary Celebration stream that aired earlier this summer. 

Are you excited about Mirage? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Mirage

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS

Release Date:

October 5, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), June 6, 2024 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

