
  Atari To Aquire System Shock Remake Developer Night Dive Studios






            Atari has announced that it has entered into an agreement to acquire Night Dive Studios, the team behind the upcoming remake of System Shock, for roughly $10 million. 

Night Dive Studios is currently led by Stephen Kick and Larry Kuperman and is both a development studio and a publisher. It has published more than 100 games, and will add its remake of System Shock to that list on May 30 (on PC). Atari says a key to the success of Night Dive Studios is its proprietary KEX engine that makes classic games playable on modern hardware. Considering Atari is a retro company, and one that just acquired 12 classic retro games, it's easy to see what Night Dive Studios can do for it. 

Sorry, this video is not available

"In addition, Atari, SA also announced that it intends to proceed in the near-term with a €30 million bond issue convertible into new shares of Atari in order to meet with its capital needs in the context of the implementation of its new growth strategy and refinancing of its debt," the press release reads. 

Atari says, "The studio's reputation and deep industry knowledge have made them a go-to partner for some of the largest names in gaming and media and allowed them to develop a diversified portfolio of titles."

It later adds, "With this acquisition, Atari will enrich its large library of owned IP, be able to leverage Night Dive's proprietary technology, and utilize Night Dive's publishing capabilities to support Atari's retro-focused growth strategy."

Atari chairman and CEO Wade Rosen says, "Night Dive's proven expertise and successful track record in commercializing retro IP is well-aligned with Atari's strategy and I am confident that their combined talent, technology, and IP portfolio will contribute to Atari's future success." 

Night Dive Studios leads Stephen Kick and Larry Kuperman write, in a joint statement, that "Night Dive and Atari have a long history together and we know that Atari shares our passion for retro games and our focus on producing high-quality new and remastered games that do justice to the original IP. As we look to grow our business and expand our capabilities, we could think of no better long-term partner than Atari."

This acquisition is expected to be completed next month. 

For more, watch the latest System Shock Remake trailer and then check out Game Informer's big list of upcoming video game remakes. 

Are you going to play Night Dive Studios' remake of System Shock? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

System Shock

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

May 30, 2023 (PC), TBA (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

