
  Bandai Namco Has Quietly Released Three Small 3D Platformers For Free 






            Bandai Namco, the publisher of Elden Ring and the developer behind this year's Tekken 8, has quietly released three small 3D platformers for free. Available to download right now on Steam, Nottolot, Doronko Wanko, and Boomeroad are 3D platformers released on March 26, and all three were developed by Bandai Namco, as pointed out by Dominic Tarason on X (formerly Twitter). 

In Nottolot, a free-play robot hacking action game, players control Rolly, who uses a hacking ability to control four enemies and escape from a robot production factory. There are 52 reviews for it on Steam so far, giving the game a "Very Positive" rating.

Boomeroad is described as an exhilarating action-adventure game in which players slide along boomerang rails they create. "The game is set in an ancient ruin floating in the sky, and the player slides through the vast skies at their own will while searching for the Artifacts," the Steam description reads. 

After more than 150 user reviews on Steam, Boomeroad currently has a "Very Positive" rating. 

 Bandai Namco's third and final quiet release is Doronko Wanko, which the company describes as an action game. "You can become a cute, innocent Pomeranian, make your master's home messy and dirty," the description reads. 'Will the mast be angry with me?' Don't worry. Because you are a sweet doggie.' 

With more than 1300 user reviews on Steam, Doronko Wanko has an "Overwhelmingly Positive" rating. 

Again, all three of these games are free to download on Steam and none of them have system requirements that will press your PC too much. It remains unclear why these games were quitely released for free on Steam – perhaps they are tests for Bandai Namco, or maybe each game is a prototype of something larger teams might be working on. 

For more about Bandai Namco, read Game Informer's Tekken 8 review and then check out the latest trailer for Elden Ring's Shadow of the Erdtree expansion. 

Are you interested in checking these games out? Let us know what you think of them if you do in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

