
  Bespoke Armor, Transmog, And Other Aspects Of Gear In Dragon Age: The Veilguard






            Dragon Age features a ton of different customization options. Just within the character creator, there are hundreds of options to customize things like hair, body type, what your playable character Rook's face looks like, and so much more. There are also a ton of armor options, too. 

Companions have an armor slot, a ring slot, an accessory slot, and a weapon slot, while Rook has access to even more – a helmet, two weapon slots, a belt, an amulet slot, and two ring slots. A belt having its own slot might sound odd as it's not an armor piece people typically think of when kitting out an RPG warrior. However, the belt is an important facet of Rook's kit. The better Rook's belt, the better the potency of their healing potions, which are replenished by destroying green pots scattered about the world. That's not all, though, as higher-quality belts can proc [editor's note: proc is a term used as a shorter way of saying "programmed random occurrence"] additional effects like momentary invulnerability. 

When creating your character, you can immediately view aspirational armors, which won't play into Rook's class until the "mid-to-late game," according to game director Corinne Busche. You can also toggle Rook's starting gear and casual wear in the creator, giving you a pretty good look at how Rook will look in more laidback cutscenes, in combat, and how they might appear later in your Veilguard journey. Busche tells me a lot of the gear in Veilguard is bespoke to your Rook or their followers, which is to say, an armor piece for a Warrior-class Rook probably won't be in a chest for a Mage-class Rook. On a similar note, armor designed for companion Bellara Lutara can't be used for another companion like Lace Harding.

In just my few hours viewing Busche play the game as part of my visit to BioWare's Edmonton office for our current Game Informer cover story, I see a lot of armor to collect from things like chests scattered about Arlathan Forest, for example, and elsewhere. Some of it looks awesome, and some of it doesn't quite line up with my personal taste. That's how it goes in the genre of RPGs.

However, Busche tells me there is transmogrification, or transmog for short, in the game, and calls it "robust." This means you can take an armor's stats and apply it to a different piece of armor. In other words, if you have a really cool piece of armor you like and find a new piece with better stats but don't want to give up the look of your current armor, you don't have to. Transmog allows you to take that new armor's stats and apply them to your current armor, giving you all the benefits while keeping the visual style you prefer. 

Transmog isnt just for Rook, though; you can transmog armor and other things for your companions as well. I don't get to see how Veilguard's transmog system works in-game, but just knowing it exists allows me to rest easy knowing my Rook will look as fashionable as possible while saving Thedas. 

For more about the game, including exclusive details, interviews, video features, and more, click the Dragon Age: The Veilguard hub button below. 

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

