
  Bethesda Outlines 2024 Plans For Starfield Including Expanded Ship Customization And More






            Earlier this month, developer Bethesda Game Studios revealed on the Starfield subreddit that it was working on new ways to travel, mod support, and more for the game. Now, the company has expanded on its 2024 plans for Starfield in a new end-of-year update, including additional ship customization. 

"We'll be adding new ways to travel and you'll now be able to access city maps while exploring the major cities," the update reads. "For those who love ship building, we'll also be expanding on ship customization with ship decorations, new ship building options, and more.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"We're also excited to be adding all new gameplay options. With these new settings, you'll be able to alter your gameplay to allow for an easier or more challenging experience that will expand beyond our normal 'difficulty' setting. These will also you to easily customize carry capacity, cargo access distance, ship damage, vendor credits, how you suffer afflictions, new survival mechanics, and more." 

Bethesda says these updates will begin rolling out in February, with the team targeting updates roughly every six weeks. 

After the launch of ship customization and new gameplay options, Bethesda says official mod support is next with the launch of Creations. "Beginning early next year, Starfield will be getting its own exporter and you'll have access to a new Creation Kit," the update reads. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

The update ends with Bethesda teasing Starfield's first expansion, Shattered Space, which is due out next year. It will feature new story content, new locations, new gear, and more. 

Elsewhere in the update, Bethesda shared some interesting statistics about Starfield players in 2023 so far: 

22,284,331 days played so far across all players
40 hours is the average playtime per player
26,027,845 hours spent building ships
1,972,345, 902 planets visited
4,575,290 outposts visited
The most dangerous faction is Ecliptic, racking up 12,276,466 deaths
The most dangerous lifeform is Ashta, racking up 1,712,447 deaths
The Battlemeal Multipack is players' favorite meal (eaten 18,395,892 times)
The Combatech Beowulf is players' most trusted weapon (595,023,360 kills)
1,631,993 Starborn players
The most used power is Sense Star Stuff
5,178,133 players have crossed the Unity 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Starfield review and then read about how it had the biggest launch ever for a Bethesda game. After that, check out this story about how Starfield is surprisingly great using remote play, and then read about why I think Starfield is more like a sci-fi theme park than an open world adventure. 

What feature are you looking forward to most for Starfield in 2024? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Starfield

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

