
  Blizzard Reveals Next Three Overwatch 2 Heroes, Including Next Month's New Tank Mauga






            Blizzard Entertainment has revealed the next three heroes of Overwatch 2, including Mauga, a new duel-wielding tank hero that hits the game next month. Plus, the Overwatch 2 team teased a new DPS hero and Support hero hitting the roster sometime down the line. 

Mauga was actually playable for free as a part of a limited-time trial run for the tank hero this past weekend, but he's already out of the game; his real debut happens alongside Overwatch 2's Season 8 launch on December 5. "Equipped with two chain guns (Gunny and Cha-Cha), Mauga is ready to bash through the front lines of his opponents and tear through anyone that stands in his way with tons of fire-power," Blizzard says about the hero. 

Watch the official Mauga gameplay trailer below: 

Here are some additional Mauga screens from Overwatch 2: 

Elsewhere during the Overwatch 2 BlizzCon 2023 presentation, which is where Mauga was revealed, Blizzard pulled back the curtains on two more heroes coming to the game sometime in the future. The first is a DPS hero named Venture, with a unique Splatoon-ish weapon: 

Venture

The second is a new support hero codenamed Space Ranger, and given this hero does not yet have an official title, it's the hero we're expecting to debut in Overwatch 2 last out of these new ones. 

Codename Space Ranger

The final piece of Overwatch 2 from BlizzCon 2023 is Clash, a new PvP mode where two teams are tasked with capturing five distinct points on a map. Perhaps most excitingly, Blizzard is bringing back Overwatch map Hanamura as playable in Clash, except under the new name Hanaoka. Here's a look at Hanaoka below: 

For more about BlizzCon 2023, read about the three World of Warcraft expansions announced during the event. After that, read Game Informer's Overwatch 2 review, and then check out our Diablo IV review. 

Which of these heroes are you most excited about? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Overwatch 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 4, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

