
  Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons Unreal Engine 5 Remake Revealed






            Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons, the award-winning 2013 indie from developer Starbreeze Studios, is getting remade. Italy-based developer Avantgarden, the team behind 2017's Last Day Of June and formerly named Ovosonico, is handling the remake and building it in Unreal Engine 5. Original publisher 505 Games is publishing the remake, which hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on February 28, as well. 

505 Games says original Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons director, Josef Fares, who later founded Hazelight Studios, which won Game of the Year at The Game Awards 2021 for It Takes Two, has endorsed the remake. 

Check out the Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons Remake for yourself in the reveal trailer below: 

"Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons Remake faithfully re-tells the remarkable heart-rending journey of brothers Naia and Naiee as they embark on a quest to save the life of their dying father," a press release reads. "Built on the Unreal Engine 5, every step of the brothers' journey has been painstakingly rebuilt from the ground up for the most immersive story possible, whilst remaining faithful to the original game. 

"As an additional bonus, the classic single-player experience is now also joined by local co-op, allowing friends to each control a brother's actions." 

Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons won a BAFTA for Game Innovation, the Downloadable Game of the Year from the D.I.C.E and Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences awards, and Best Xbox Game as the VGAs after its release. 

Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons Remake hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC via Steam, the Epic Game Store, and GOG, on February 28, 2024.

For more, read Game Informer's review of Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons. 

Have you played the original Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons? Let us know if you're excited bout this remake in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons Remake

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 28, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Brothers - A Tale of Two Sons

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

August 7, 2013

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

