
  Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare III Was November's Best-Selling Game In US, Already Second Best Of The Year






            Video game analyst group Circana has released its November 2023 U.S. Video Game Market Highlights report and in it, the company reveals that, unsurprisingly, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III was the best-selling game of the month. It launched on PlayStation, Xbox, and PC on November 10 and is already the second best-selling game of 2023, behind Hogwarts Legacy. 

The annual Call of Duty game always sells extremely well – it has taken the top spot of November for five years straight – so today's results are no surprise. However, what's new this time around is that Modern Warfare III is now an Xbox-owned game, after Microsoft successfully completed its acquisition of Activision Blizzard for a colossal $69 billion. Also, notably, despite Modern Warfare III reviewing poorly – it has a 56 on Metacritic, the lowest of the rebooted Modern Warfare series, and received a 5 out of 10 from Game Informer – it's still selling very well, per usual. 

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III was the best-selling game of November, instantly becoming the 2nd best-selling game of 2023 year-to-date. It is the 5th consecutive year that a Call of Duty title was November’s best-seller (Red Dead Redemption II ranked 1st in Nov 2018).
— Mat Piscatella (@MatPiscatella) December 13, 2023

However, on both PlayStation and Xbox, it was the second most-played game of the month, behind Fortnite, which is free-to-play, on both platforms. 

Here are the top 10 best-selling games of November 2023: 

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III
Marvel's Spider-Man 2
Hogwarts Legacy
Madden NFL 24
Super Mario Bros. Wonder
EA Sports FC 24
Super Mario RPG
Mortal Kombat 1
NBA 2K24
UFC 5
And here are the top 10 best-selling games of 2023, year-to-date: 

Hogwarts Legacy
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
Marvel's Spider-Man 2
Madden NFL 24
Diablo IV
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II 
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
Mortal Kombat 1
Starfield
In terms of platforms, the PlayStation 5 remained the best-selling hardware platform in both unit and dollar sales for November. Xbox Series X/S came in second for both measures. The newly released PlayStation Portal was the fourth best-selling platform of November. 

Overall, U.S. consumer spending on video game content, hardware, and accessories fell 7 percent compared to this time last year, to $5.9 billion. Circana executive director Mat Piscatella says this decline was driven by a 24 percent drop in hardware spending, to $964 million, and a 3 percent dip in content, to $4.6 billion. 

"All current generation consoles experienced a dougle-digit percentage decline in dollar sales when compared to a year ago, with Nintendo Switch showing the sharpest drop year-on-year," Piscatella writes on Twitter. 

For more, check out October 2023's best-selling games and then read the September 2023 video game spending results after that. Read Game Informer's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III review and then find out what we thought of Hogwarts Legacy. 

Have you been playing Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

