
  Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare III, Diablo IV Won't Come To Xbox Game Pass This Year






            Almost two years ago, Microsoft announced it was acquiring Activision Blizzard for a colossal $69 billion. Reports say the acquisition deal is expected to close this week and Xbox players are anticipating the addition of Activision Blizzard games to the Game Pass lineup. However, a new tweet by Activision Blizzard makes it sound like the company's games won't hit the subscription service until next year. Plus, Activision Blizzard says it won't be adding the upcoming Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III or the recently released Diablo IV to Game Pass this year.

Here's what Activision Blizzard said in a tweet posted yesterday: 

"It's awesome to see anticipation building for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III. As we continue working toward regulatory approval of the Microsoft deal, we've been getting some questions whether our upcoming and recently launched games will be available via Game Pass. 

"While we do not have plans to put Modern Warfare III or Diablo IV into Game Pass this year, once the deal closes, we expect to start working with Xbox to bring our titles to more players around the world. And we anticipate that we would begin adding games into Game Pass sometime in the course of next year."

It’s awesome to see anticipation building for Call of Duty®: Modern Warfare® III. As we continue to work toward regulatory approval of the Microsoft deal, we’ve been getting some questions whether our upcoming and recently launched games will be available via Game Pass.

While we…
— Activision Blizzard (@ATVI_AB) October 9, 2023

Diablo IV launched back in June and we had a great time with it. You can read about why in Game Informer's Diablo IV review. For more about Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, check out Game Informer's preview here and then read up on the biggest Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III news from last week's Call of Duty Next livestream.

What's the first Activision Blizzard game you hope gets added to Xbox Game Pass? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Diablo IV

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 6, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

