
  CDPR Working On Free Witcher 3 Mod Editor To Allow Players To 'Create Your Own Experiences'






            Update, 5/07/2024:

Last year, CD Projekt Red announced it was working on a mod editor for The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, set to hit PC sometime this year for free. Now, we know exactly when: May 21, 2024. That means we're just a few weeks away from The Witcher 3 REDkit, "an extensive mod editor based on the game's engine," being released to players around the world. 

CD Projekt Red announced this today on X (formerly Twitter), reminding players it will be free for everyone who owns The Witcher 3 on PC. 

Mark your calendars — The Witcher 3 REDkit, an extensive mod editor based on the game’s engine, releases on May 21st, 2024! ⚙

It will be available for free for everyone who owns The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt on PC.

Wishlist on @Steam, @GOGcom or @EpicGames:

🖤… pic.twitter.com/wCx8CE9SJo
— The Witcher (@witchergame) May 7, 2024

If you don't own The Witcher 3 on PC yet but want to mod the game using this REDkit, you can purchase the game on Steam, GOG, or the Epic Games Store. 

The original story continues below...

Original story, 11/15/2023:

It's been a big year for Cyberpunk 2077 and The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt developer CD Projekt Red. It released Phantom Liberty, the first and only expansion for Cyberpunk 2077, debuted its soundtrack on streaming services, revealed plans for a live-action Cyberpunk project, and just this week, nabbed four nominations for The Game Awards 2023. Now, CDPR has announced it is working on a mod editor for The Witcher 3 that will hit PC sometime next year for free. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"We're thrilled to announce that we're working on a mod editor for The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt," a tweet from the official Witcher Twitter account reads. "It will allow you to create your own experiences in the game by making something completely new or editing existing quests and content. We're planning on releasing it for free in 2024. Stay tuned – we'll have more to share next year." 

We're thrilled to announce that we're working on a mod editor for The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt! ⚔️

It will allow you to create your own experiences in the game by making something completely new or editing existing quests and content. We’re planning on releasing it for free in 2024.… pic.twitter.com/e2kvXRqegZ
— The Witcher (@witchergame) November 15, 2023

Notably, CDPR says this mod editor for The Witcher 3 will allow players to create their own experiences in the game, meaning people can develop their own fantasy adventures starring everyone's favorite monster hunter. In a reply on Twitter, the official account confirms this mod editor will only be coming to PC.

If you haven't yet played The Witcher 3, you should and you can read about why in Game Informer's review of The Witcher 3. 

For more about CDPR, read Game Informer's Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty review and then check out this feature about how the team behind Phantom Liberty created its spy-thriller soundtrack. 

Do you have any plans to use the mod editor coming to The Witcher 3 next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Complete Edition 

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 15, 2019 (Switch), December 14, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

