
  Check Out New Rise Of The Ronin Gameplay In New Behind-The-Scenes Video






            Developer Team Ninja has released a new behind-the-scenes video for the upcoming PlayStation 5 exclusive, Rise of the Rōnin, and it features new gameplay showing off the game's tough and fast action combat. Unsurprisingly, the game continues to look great. 

This new look at the game's action features conversation from game producer and director Fumihiko Yasuda and animation lead Kosuke Wakamatsu discussing how Team Ninja approached the combat. They say it started with determining the different ideologies within Rōnin history, why certain individuals fought the way they did, and how that translates to a game aiming to be authentic to the Bakumatsu history. 

Check it the new Rise of the Rōnin gameplay for yourself below: 

Yasuda and Wakamatsu discuss the Bakamutsu period of Japan's history and how the introduction of Western weapons, like firearms, dramatically changed the way Rōnin went about battle. Instead of just katanas and up-close weaponry, firearms forced warriors to adapt to new types of ranged combat. This led to the use of firearms like pistols alongside swords, bayonets, and more. 

If the use of guns has you worried Rise of the Rōnin won't deliver the fast and difficult up-close action Team Ninja is known for, fear not. "Action remains at the core of Rise of the Rōnin [and] it is the culmination of our previous work on action games at Team Ninja," Yasuda says in the video. 

Wakamatsu adds, "Team Ninja's action is known for its high speed and difficulty, [and] we feel it's part of the players' expectations as well." 

Elsewhere in the video, the two developers discuss Rise of the Rōnin's bond system, which allows NPC characters to join the protagonist's journey. You can even switch to different characters for special moves. The video ends with another look at the counter system in the game's combat. 

For more about the game, check out this Rise of the Rōnin gameplay trailer from last month, and then check out Game Informer's preview thoughts on Rise of the Rōnin after talking with the team in December. 

Are you excited for Rise of the Rōnin? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Rise of the Rōnin

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

