
  Check Out Another Sneak Peek At Pokémon Horizons, Releasing Later This Year






            The Pokémon Company has released another trailer for Pokémon Horizons: The Series, and it’s also the first English-dubbed trailer, too. 

This anime is the one replacing the long-running Pokémon anime that recently wrapped up after 25 seasons of pocket monster adventures. Horizons features new protagonists, Liko and Roy, who are joined by Friede, the Professor of this series, alongside Captain Pikachu. In this new English-dubbed trailer, we see Liko and her Sprigatito, Roy and his Fuecoco, Friede and Captain Pikachu, and plenty of other Pokémon. 

Check out the new Pokémon Horizons English-dubbed trailer for yourself below: 

“We are incredibly grateful to the fans who joined us for our first Comic-Con International panel, and it was an absolute joy to connect with members of the Pokémon community who have contributed to making Pokémon animation the success that it is today, while providing a closer look at what’s to come for the series,” said Taito Okiura, vice president of marketing for The Pokémon Company International during a San Diego Comic Con panel. “As we gear up for the upcoming release of ‘Pokémon Horizons: The Series,’ we remain passionate about delivering animated content with captivating stories and lovable characters that appeal to fans across the globe and look forward to sharing more soon.”

Alongside this new trailer, The Pokémon Company also released a new 11-minute sneak peek at Horizons’ first episode:

As you can see, Friede and Captain Pikachu lead a group known as the Rising Volt Tacklers, and they will seemingly be at odds with the antagonistic group known as the Explorers, which includes Amethio and his partner Pokémon Ceruledge. Somebody in the show also has a shiny Rayquaza fighting for them, indicated by its black (instead of green) color. 

Elsewhere during the panel, The Pokémon Company also released a new trailer for Pokémon: To Be a Pokémon Master, which is a collection of episodes that will conclude Pokémon Ultimate Journeys: The Series when it launches on Netflix on September 8. These “nostalgic episodes will bring back fan-favorite Pokémon and characters, such as Misty and Brock, while providing a glimpse at what the future may hold for Ash Ketchum and his Pikachu in this final chapter of their 25-season journey,” according to a press release. 

Check out the Pokémon: To Be a Pokémon Master trailer below: 

Pokémon: To Be a Pokémon Master hits Netflix on September 8. Pokémon Horizons is due out sometime this year, but there’s no official release date yet. 

For more, check out this story about Ash’s English voice actor thanking her Japanese counterpart for 17 years of inspiration, and then watch the original reveal of Pokemon Horizons. Read Game Informer’s Pokémon Scarlet and Violet review after that, and then check out the latest details about the upcoming Hidden Treasure of Area Zero DLC for Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. 

Are you going to be watching these anime when they launch this year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Pokémon Scarlet And Violet: The Hidden Treasure Of Area Zero – The Teal Mask

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

Pokémon Scarlet And Violet: The Hidden Treasure Of Area Zero – The Indigo Disk

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

