
  Check Out 20 Minutes Of New Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Gameplay And Behind-The-Scenes Details 






            Rocksteady Studios, the team behind Batman: Arkham Asylum, City, and Knight, has released the first installment of its Suicide Squad Insider series, which will break down aspects of Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League from now until the game's launch in February of next year. Today's episode is all about story and gameplay and features more than 20 minutes of new gameplay and behind-the-scenes details about the upcoming third-person action shooter. 

Before jumping into the action, we see the Suicide Squad make its way through a Hall of Heroes-style exhibition for the Justice League. After playing around with various Justice League tools like speedster braces, jetpacks, and other oddities like Riddler's hat of invisibility, the team learns the threat it's up against isn't just Braniac, who has taken over Metropolis, but a Braniac-controlled Justice League as well. 

Check out the Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League action for yourself below: 

In terms of insight, Rocksteady teases that fans of DC Comics can expect plenty of easter eggs, villains like Penguin, plenty of loot, and more. Beyond that, though, this first installment of Suicide Squad Insider seemingly aims to calm the fears of Rocksteady fans worried about the studio's pivot to live-service multiplayer gameplay rather than the single-player narrative driven action it's known for. 

Elsewhere, we learn that each Suicide Squad member has a unique way to traverse Metropolis – Captain Boomerang uses a special speedster device to run and dash through the city like the Flash, for example – and that each has a special melee attack. As expected, each character specializes in different weapon types, with King Shark using sheer strength while others, like Deadshot, are all about gunplay. 

Rocksteady says the next episode of Suicide Squad Insider will "deep-dive into more gameplay, combat mechanics, and how to take the fight to the enemy in your own unique style."  

Rocksteady revealed Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League in August of 2020. Later that month, the studio released the first trailer for the game. It wasn't until December of 2021 that we got our first look at Suicide Squad's gameplay, and while fans were somewhat excited, a later gameplay showing left potential players disappointed with news of a battle pass and a more live-service focus on content. That was in February of this year and two months later, in April, Rocksteady delayed Suicide Squad to next year to make the game the best possible experience for players. 

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on February 2, 2024. 

What do you think of today's Suicide Squad gameplay? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

