
  Cities: Skylines II Console Release Delayed To Spring 2024






            Developer Colossal Order and publisher Paradox Interactive have delayed the console release of Cities: Skylines II. Originally set to release on October 24 alongside the PC version, the team has delayed the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X versions of the game to spring of next year. The PC version will still launch next month. 

As for why, Colossal Order says in an update made on Twitter that the team needs more time to reach quality targets it has set for the console release. 

"Mayors, we're hard at work getting the game ready for release," the update reads. "We've come to realize that we need more time to reach the quality targets set for console. We want to provide the best experience for our players, we're updating the release window for Xbox & PS5 to Spring 2024." 

Mayors! We’re hard at work getting the game ready for release. We've come to realize that we need more time to reach the quality targets we've set for Console. We want to provide the best experience for our players, we’re updating the release window for Xbox & PS5 to Spring 2024. pic.twitter.com/eljCTi0deF
— Cities: Skylines (@CitiesSkylines) September 28, 2023

In a separate statement via email, Colossal Order and Paradox Interactive say, "The additional time allows us to focus on matching the quality and performance across all platforms." It also says it is updating the minimum and recommended PC specs as optimization work continues, and that it will share more updates on the console release window soon. 

Cities: Skylines II hits PC on October 24. The PS5 and Xbox Series X versions will be released sometime next spring. 

In the meantime, watch the Cities: Skylines II reveal trailer here. 

Are you hopping into Cities: Skylines II next month on PC? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Cities: Skylines II

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 24, 2023 (PC), 2024 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

