
  Convergence: A League Of Legends Story Will Be Released This Month






            Riot Forge and Double Stallion Games have revealed that Convergence: A League of Legends Story will be released this month. 

More specifically, the single-player 2D action platformer starring League champion Ekko will be released on May 23. The game will be available for purchase on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC via Steam, GOG, and the Epic Games Store. Alongside the release date, Riot Forge and Double Stallion also released a new story trailer setting up the stakes of Convergence's story. 

Check out the new Convergence: A League of Legends Story trailer for yourself below:

"In Convergence: A League of Legends Story™ players will explore the spectacular world of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time," a press release reads. "Follow the journey of Ekko, a fan-favorite League of Legends Champion, as he discovers that the power to change time comes with many consequences. Developed by Double Stallion Games, Convergence is a 2D Action Platformer with an incredible art style that focuses on tight dynamic combat and unique exploration opportunities afforded by Ekko’s ability to travel in space and time."

Check out some screenshots from the game in the gallery below: 

For more League of Legends story games, check out The Mageseeker: A League of Legends Story, which just released last month, and then read about the upcoming Song of Inu: A League of Legends Story. 

Are you going to check out Convergence: A League of Legends Story this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Convergence: A League of Legends Story

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

May 23, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

