
  Counter-Strike 2 Is Real And It's Out This Summer






            Valve has revealed Counter-Strike 2 and it will be released this summer. 

An official release date was not revealed, but Valve says Counter-Strike 2 will be a free upgrade to anyone who owns Counter-Strike: Global Offensive. Plus, if you do own Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, you can jump into a limited test for Counter-Strike 2 starting today. During this testing period, Valve says it will "be evaluating a subset of features to shake out any issues before the worldwide release." 

The company also says, "Counter-Strike 2 is the largest technical leap forward in Counter-Strike's history, ensuring new features and updates for years to come."

Alongside today's reveal, Valve has released three gameplay videos for Counter-Strike 2. You can check out all three below: 

Counter-Strike 2 will run in the Source 2 engine, which has tools and rendering features "available for community map makers to make it easier to build, experiment, and iterate." There will be a Source 2 Item Workshop as well, and it will be available at a later time during the Counter-Strike 2 limited test. 

The official Counter-Strike 2 has plenty of more nitty-gritty details about the game so head there if you want more information. 

Here are some quick-hit highlights players can expect in Counter-Strike 2: 

Upgraded and overhauled maps
Game-changing dynamic smoke grenades
Tick-rate-independent gameplay
Residgned visual effects and audio
All of a player's CS:GO items with them in CS2

Counter-Strike 2 hits PC sometime this summer.

Are you excited about this surprise Counter-Strike 2 reveal? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Counter-Strike 2

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

Summer 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

