
  Crash Bandicoot 4, Spyro Reignited Trilogy Dev Toys For Bob Is Splitting From Activision






            Toys for Bob, the studio behind games like Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, Spyro Reignited Trilogy, and Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time, has announced it is splitting from its owner Activision Blizzard to go independent. It is also exploring a partnership with Microsoft. 

Toys for Bob announced this in a statement released today, which explains why now is "the time to take the studio and our future games to the next level." 

Here's Toys for Bob's statement, in full: 

"We're thrilled to announce that Toys for Bob is spinning off as an independent game development studio. 

Over the years, we've inspired love, joy, and laughter for the inner child in all gamers. We pioneered new IP and hardware technologies in Skylanders. We raised the bar for best-in-class remasters in Spyro Reignited Trilogy. We've taken Crash Bandicoot to innovative, critically acclaimed new heights. 

With the same enthusiasm and passion, we believe that now is the time to take the studio and our future games to the next level. This opportunity allows us to return to our roots of being a small and nimble studio. 

To make this news even more exciting, we're exploring a possible partnership between our new studio and Microsoft. And while we're in the early days of developing our next new game and a ways away from making any announcements, our team is excited to develop new stories, new characters, and new gameplay experiences. 

Our friends at Activision and Microsoft have been extremely supportive of our new direction and we're confident that we will continue to work closely together as part of our future. 

So, keep your horns and your eyes out for more news. Thank you to our community of players for always supporting us through our journey. We can't wait to share updates on our new adventure as an indie studio. Talk to you soon." 

Toys for Bob did not disclose a price (if there is one) associated with its split from Activision Blizzard, which arrives just a few months after Microsoft purchased the company for a colossal $69 billion.

Toys for Bob joins another studio leaving the hands of its owner today: With a $500 million deal, Embracer Group has sold Saber Interactive to a group of private investors, as reported by Bloomberg. Kotaku is also reporting today that Gearbox, the makers of the Borderlands series, is looking to break away from Embracer Group as well. 

What kind of game do you hope Toys for Bob makes first? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Spyro Reignited Trilogy

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 13, 2018

Purchase
More Info

Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 2, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), March 12, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

