
  Cult Of The Lamb's Unholy Alliance Update Adds Local Campaign Co-Op This August






            Developer Massive Monster still isn't done with its 2022 hit game, Cult of the Lamb, as it's bringing full campaign co-op to it this August. Revealed during today's Devolver Digital presentation, the Unholy Alliance update hits Cult of the Lamb on August 12 and adds a new playable character: the Goat. 

With the Goat joining the titular Lamb, players can now experience the entire campaign in local co-op. Devolver says this update includes two-player twists on existing minigames in Cult of the Lamb, like fishing and kuncklebones, as well as additional corrupted weapons, tarot cards, curses, and relics. 

Check out the two-player action in the Cult of the Lamb: Unholy Alliance trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

While playing in co-op, players can swap weapons, deal extra damage when fighting back-to-back, and deal critical hits if their attacks are in sync. Plus, solo players get some new powers and abilities to play with, too. 

Elsewhere in the update, Unholy Alliance adds new buildings, fleeces, follower traits, follower quests, and more secrets to discover. 

Here are some Cult of the Lamb: Unholy Alliance screenshots: 

Cult of the Lamb's Unholy Alliance update hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch, and PC for free on August 12. 

For more, read Game Informer's Cult of the Lamb review, and then read about the major content update the game got last year. 

Are you going to revisit Cult of the Lamb for some co-op action? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Cult of the Lamb

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 11, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

