
                                          Cult of the Lamb
                  


  Cult Of The Lamb: Exclusive Gameplay Reveal




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC

Publisher
Devolver Digital

Developer
Massive Monster

Release
August 11, 2022

Rating
Teen

            Cult of the Lamb debuted during Gamescom last year, and it quickly grabbed our attention due to its unique art style, fantastic score, and mix of fast-paced action roguelike gameplay with Animal Crossing-style base-building mechanics. Game Informer editors Alex Stadnik and Wesley LeBlanc recently went hands-on with Cult of the Lamb, playing through the game's first 20 minutes. 

In this installment of New Gameplay Today, Alex and Wesley discuss everything about those first 20 minutes, including how the gameplay feels, how well the two disparate gameplay mechanics in base-building and roguelike action come together, the score, the visual style, and more. And today's New Gameplay Today is extra special because they're joined by Massive Monster creative director Julian Wilton, who discusses the game's development and answers all the questions they had for him. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you're excited about Cult of the Lamb, this New Gameplay Today can tide you over until the game's release, which is set to happen sometime this year when it hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC. 

For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for early looks at Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers, Vampire: The Masquerade - Swansong, Forspoken, and so much more! Thanks for watching today's video.

      Products In This Article

Cult of the Lamb

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 11, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

