
  Cyberpunk 2077 Phantom Liberty Expansion Out Next Year






            CD Projekt Red has unveiled the first Cyberpunk 2077 story expansion called Phantom Liberty will be released next year. 

This was revealed during today's Night City Wire livestream, which is also where CDPR, Netflix, and Studio Trigger revealed what the English Dub for Cyberpunk: Edgerunnners sounds like. CDPR revealed Phantom Liberty shortly after, and it looks great. Not only does it add more to V's story, with them seemingly becoming a secret service-like agent for the New United States of America, but it also sees Keanu Reeves' Johnny Silverhand return to the fold. 

Check out the Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty expansion trailer for yourself below: 

Sorry, this video is not available

As you can see, the expansion trailer is short and sweet, but it packs a punch. There's the narrator, who just might be the president of the New United States of America, as well as Johnny Silverhand. There also appears to be some new locations and weapons at play in the trailer, too, but that remains unconfirmed for now. 

During the stream, CDPR said "it's a new kind of style of plot" for the team in terms of Phantom Liberty's narrative, and that it will feature a new cast of characters (joining V, of course). As for where it takes place, the team didn't specify, but it did say it will primarily unfold in one district of Night City. 

Elsewhere in the stream, CDPR detailed some of the changes in the 1.6 update, which is now live, including a complete overhaul to Cyberpunk 2077's police system and vehicle-to-vehicle combat mechanics. There's a new gameplay loop for melee combat and a bunch of new actions in the perk tree as well. Plus, Nibbles the cat is now available to add in photo mode. Other aspects of this update include a transmog system, playable arcade cabinets, and a jacket and weapon inspired by Cyberpunk: Edgerunners. Check out the full patch notes for this update here. 

Finally, the team said Update 1.6 will be the last major update for old-gen consoles and that moving forward, all updates will be on current-gen consoles and PC. However, the team will continue to monitor old-gen versions of the game and perform maintenance to keep them running smoothly as needed. 

Is Phantom Liberty going to bring you back to Cyberpunk 2077's Night City? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 26, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Cyberpunk 2077

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

December 10, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), February 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

