
  Dave The Diver Hits Switch Next Month With Exclusive Bonuses






            Dave the Diver has been one of the sleeper hits of the very busy year of video games that 2023 has been so far and continues to be. Dave the Diver hit PC earlier this year but now, developer Mintrocket has revealed the sushi restaurant management game will hit Switch next month. 

More specifically, Dave the Diver will launch on Switch on October 26, and it will do so with Switch-exclusive bonuses, but only for those who preorder.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

The game will cost $19.99 on Switch and you can preorder it on the Nintendo eShop right now. You can also check out a demo of the game on Switch right now, too. Preordering the game before its release will get you a bonus skin for Dave's boat and an exclusive lamp decoration for the sushi restaurant. Mintrocket describes the boat skin as nostalgic and themed after an 8-bit visual style, whereas the lamp depicts Dave "in [a] charming retro style." 

"We're over the moon seeing and hearing the reception to our first game," Dave the Diver game director Jaeho Hwang writes in a press release. "Bringing this to the Switch community has been an important goal for us as we think the console is a home where the players will truly appreciate everything Dave the Diver has to offer." 

For the uninitiated, Dave the Diver tasks players with diving underwater to gather ingredients by day that are used to serve hungry customers at a seaside sushi restaurant at night. However, there's a mystery bubbling up from "the deepest depths of the Blue Hole, the setting that [Dave] will swim through in this incredible journey." 

Dave the Diver is currently available on PC. It hits Switch on October 26. 

While waiting for its Switch release, read Game Informer's Dave the Diver review.

Are you picking up Dave the Diver on Switch next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dave The Diver

Platform:

Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 28, 2023 (PC), October 26, 2023 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

