
  Deathbound Is A New Soulslike With A Unique Class-Based Twist






            Publisher Tate Multimedia and developer Trialforge Studio have released the debut trailer for Deathbound, its new Soulslike action RPG with a unique class-based twist coming to Steam next year. 

Set in a crumbling civilization where unnatural science clashes with fanatical faith, players take on the role of a warrior set on confronting the Church of Death. In this world – Ziêminal – there's no good and no evil; just monsters and enemies in your way. And if today's Deathbound trailer is anything to go on, they won't go down without a fight. 

Check out the Deathbound reveal trailer for yourself below: 

Sorry, this video is not available

As you can see in the trailer above, players can freely switch between various heroes of different classes in a party at any time, and they'll need to do so to survive in specific situations. Trialforge Studio calls this a "Binding System, allowing players to absorb the essence of the fallen warriors found throughout the world." Using the collected essence, players can obtain new skills and abilities to transform their playstyle, or they can use it to form a party of heroes they can then switch between. 

Binding also unlocks Morphstrikes, which combines all of a party's power into a devastating blow. 

"The memories and identities of the fallen will be uncovered through Binding as well," a press release reads. "In addition to environment and items, essence will reveal the narrative behind the world of Ziêminal and its inhabitants. Though players must tread carefully when Binding, as not all heroes converge harmoniously. The conflicts caused by divergent essences absorbed will greatly impact the gameplay and narrative alike." 

Deathbound is due out sometime in 2024 on Steam. 

      Products In This Article

Deathbound

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

