
  Deathbound, A Single-Player Party-Based Soulslike, Hits PlayStation, Xbox, And PC This Year






            Developer Trialforge Studio and publisher Tate Multimedia revealed Deathbound, a new Soulslike with a unique class-based twist, last August. At the time, PC was its only platform but now, Game Informer can exclusively reveal Deathbound will also come to PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S day-in-date with PC later this year. 

As we learned with Deathbound's reveal last year, the game wears its Soulslike inspiration on its sleeve. However, it aims to differentiate itself within the ever-growing genre with what Trialforge calls a single-player party-based system. Players will control a single vessel that channels various heroes known as the fallen. These are individual characters, each with unique skill sets, combat styles, and lore, that share the player-controlled vessel. As such, players can switch between different characters, but they'll need to do so with caution as they aren't all necessarily in alliance with each other. 

Check out the newest Deathbound trailer for yourself below: 

"The relationships between characters also must be taken into effect as it greatly impacts gameplay," a press release reads. "The Church of Death and Cult of Life are at odds with one another. Aligning opposing factions close to one another in the vessel will cause conflict, resulting in consequential combat effects. Alternatively, strong synergies with shared beliefs may offer combat buffs that can spell disaster for the ruthless boss awaiting steel and magic. No matter the creed, the fallen must fight as one." 

Trialforge says in combat, players will charge something called a sync meter that's shared across the fallen within the vessel. When the right opportunity shows itself, players can dispel the sync meter to unleash a devastating "Morphstrike, with the combined power of the party." 

Deathbound will hit PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC via Steam, GOG, and Epic Games Store sometime this year. If you're curious how it plays, there's a demo available right now on Steam. 

For more, read Game Informer's write-up about Deathbound's reveal from last year. After that, check out our list of the top 10 best Soulslike games. 

Are you excited for Deathbound? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Deathbound

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

