
  Destiny 2: The Final Shape Includes New Prismatic Subclass, Enemy Faction, Exotics, And More






            Bungie has released a new trailer for Destiny 2's next expansion, The Final Shape, and it includes gameplay of Guardians wielding both light and darkness at once, new weapons and enemies, and more. This trailer was part of a wider information blitz surrounding The Final Shape, which promises to conclude the decade-long War of Light and Darkness story arc, where we also learned more about The Witness and additional exotics. 

Unveiled last August and originally set to launch in February before getting delayed to June 4, The Final Shape is shaping up (pun intended) to be one of the biggest expansions for Destiny 2 yet. It's fitting, considering the story players have been enjoying for 10 years is set to wrap up in it. 

Check out the Destiny 2: The Final Shape gameplay trailer for yourself below: 

"Alongside the three new Light Supers previously announced [Twilight Arsenal for Titans, Storm's Edge for Hunters, and Song of Flame for Warlocks], Guardians will wield the Light and Darkness together for the first time to unleash the Prismatic subclass," a press release reads. "This subclass introduces new options to enhance and customize each playstyle with the combination of multiple element types."

Bungie says each class will get a unique grenade that combines multiple subclass elements, too: Warlocks will get a Stasis/Void grenade, Titans a Strand/Arc grenade, and Hunters will get a Solar/Stasis grenade. 

For the first time ever in Destiny 2 history, in The Final Shape, players will be able to equip an exotic class item – meaning Hunter's cloaks, Titan's marks, and Warlock's bonds – with exotic-level perks. These perks will be randomized, according to Bungie, taking two features from existing exotic class items (including some belonging to other classes). 

The new Dread enemy faction will terrorize Guardians at the behest of The Witness (pictured above) with never-before-seen abilities. Alongside Tormentors and Subjugators, The Witness will unleash new Grim, Husk, Attendant, and Weaver units: 

Grim: A highly mobile flying enemy that slows and suppresses a Guardian's abilities if they get too close. 
Husk: An acrobatic melee bruiser that sends a deployable geist enemy toward you unless you hit their weak spot with a final blow.
Attendant and Weaver: By wielding Stasis and Strand, respectively, these units can instantly change the flow of the encounter and force Guardians to pay attention to their positioning on the battlefield. 
These enemies, exotics, the new Prismatic subclass, and more will be available with the launch of The Final Shape on June 4. In the meantime, you can jump into the game's latest update – Into the Light – starting today. 

This new two-month update features the new wave-defense Onslaught activity, fan-favorite weapons with standard and limited-edition variants, the new Hall of Champions social space, reprised Zero Hour and The Whisper exotic missions, a raid boss gauntlet called the Pantheon, new rewards, and more. 

Are you excited for The Final Shape? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Destiny 2: The Final Shape

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 4, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

