
  Destiny 2's Shadowkeep, Beyond Light, And Witch Queen Expansions Are Free Until The Final Shape Launches 






            Destiny 2: The Final Shape is set to wrap up the decade-long War of Light and Darkness story arc when it launches on June 4, but ahead of that, developer Bungie is giving players an easy way to catch up on previous expansions. Unveiled yesterday under the initiative name "Expansion Open Access," all Destiny 2 players can access and play through the game's Shadowkeep (2019), Beyond Light (2020), and The Witch Queen (2022) expansions. 

"Prepare for The Final Shape with three epic campaigns and earn an arsenal of exotic and legendary gear," the Expansion Open Access trailer's description reads. And speaking of trailer, check out the Destiny 2 Expansion Open Access trailer for yourself below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Now, of course, these three aren't the only Destiny 2 expansions but they're the only ones currently available to play through in the game. As such, it might be smart to watch a playthrough or read a narrative summary of all expansions released before The Final Shape next month. 

Here's every Destiny 2 expansion/DLC released since the game's launch: 

Curse of Osiris (2017)
Warmind (2018)
Forsaken (2018)
Shadowkeep (2019)
Beyond Light (2020)
The Witch Queen (2022)
Lightfall (2023)

The Destiny 2 Expansion Open Access period lasts from now until June 3. If you're a PlayStation Plus subscriber, you also currently have access to Lightfall, making now a perfect time to catch up. 

For more, watch the Destiny 2: The Final Shape reveal trailer here, and then check out this breakdown of The Final Shape's new prismatic subclass, enemy faction, exotics, and more. 

Are you going to play through these expansions before The Final Shape next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Destiny 2: The Final Shape

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 4, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

