
  Diablo IV: Vessel Of Hatred Expansion Brings Players To A Lush Jungle Biome Late Next Year






            Blizzard Entertainment has revealed that the first expansion for Diablo IV is called Vessel of Hatred, and it hits the game late next year. The Diablo team revealed this news over the weekend during BlizzCon 2023, which is also where we learned about three new World of Warcraft expansions and three new Overwatch 2 heroes coming to the game. 

During BlizzCon 2023, Blizzard kept Vessel of Hatred details light, stating it will share more details next summer. As for what to expect, it features a campaign that continues the dark tale that began in Diablo IV. "Vessel of Hatred brings players back to learn the fate of the prime evil Mephisto and his demonic plans for Sanctuary," a press release reads. "Travel to the lush jungles known by the locals as Nahantu." 

Check out the Diablo IV: Vessel of Hatred expansion announcement trailer for yourself below: 

Blizzard says Vessel of Hatred will allow players to traverse an exotic new region, vanquish new evils, and perhaps most excitingly, explore fresh ways to kill demons and loot chests with a completely new Class "never seen before in the Diablo universe." 

And that's all Blizzard shared about Vessel of Hatred. Diablo IV's first expansion is due out in late 2024. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Diablo IV review and then check out this story about how Diablo IV (and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III) won't be coming to Xbox Game Pass this year, even though Xbox now owns Activision Blizzard. Read about the ongoing Diablo IV Season of Blood after that. 

What do you hope the new Diablo IV class coming with Vessel of Hatred is? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Diablo IV

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 6, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

