
                                          Diablo Immortal
                  


  Diablo Immortal PC First Look – Gameplay + Interview




Platform
PC, iOS, Android

Publisher
Blizzard Entertainment

Developer
Blizzard Entertainment, Netease

Release
June 2, 2022

            It is important to keep in mind what is going on within Activision Blizzard at this time regarding ongoing allegations about the work culture. The ongoing lawsuit from the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) against the company is over reported toxic workplace culture. The bulk of the suit focuses on "violations of the state's civil rights and equal pay laws," specifically regarding the treatment of women and other marginalized groups. To learn more about the proceedings thus far, including details listed in the lawsuit against Activision Blizzard, please check out our previous coverage here.

Diablo Immortal was revealed by Blizzard Entertainment four years ago, in 2018, and when it was announced, it was said to be a mobile-only game for iOS and Android devices. That remained the case for quite some time, but in recent betas, the team came to realize that if it truly wanted to embrace the spirit of bringing a Diablo experience to more players than ever before, Diablo Immortal needed to come to PC, too. And now, Blizzard has announced that it is, and the team has revealed an official release date, too. More specifically, it will hit iOS and Android on June 2, and that same day, the game will hit PC in Open Beta. 

Now, don't fret – the entire Diablo Immortal experience will be live on PC despite it being an Open Beta. The team is just looking for feedback and suggestions on this version of the game. Game Informer learned that and so much more by sitting down to interview Diablo Immortal game director Wyatt Cheng and the head of the Diablo franchise, Rod Fergusson, about today's exciting news. You can listen to that entire interview in the latest installment of New Gameplay Today, which features more than 20 minutes of new Diablo Immortal footage, including video captured from mobile gameplay, PC gameplay, and a few minutes of footage from both, running side-by-side. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you're excited about Diablo Immortal, hopefully this new look featuring never-before-seen gameplay can tide you over until the game's release, which is set to happen on June 2 when it hits iOS and Android devices, as well as a PC Open Beta the same day. 

For more about Diablo Immortal, be sure to head to the official Game Informer Diablo Immortal hub, which contains first looks at the game, news stories, and more. For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for early looks at Cult of the Lamb, Chrono Cross: The Radical Dreamers, Vampire: The Masquerade - Swansong, Forspoken, and so much more! Thanks for watching today's video.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Diablo Immortal

Platform:

PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

June 2, 2022 (iOS, Android), TBA (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

