
  Diablo Immortal | New Gameplay Today






            It is important to keep in mind what is going on within Activision Blizzard at this time regarding ongoing allegations about the work culture. The ongoing lawsuit from the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) against the company is over reported toxic workplace culture. The bulk of the suit focuses on "violations of the state's civil rights and equal pay laws," specifically regarding the treatment of women and other marginalized groups. To learn more about the proceedings thus far, including details listed in the lawsuit against Activision Blizzard, please check out our previous coverage here.

Diablo Immortal is just around the corner. After its big release date announcement last month, we released an installment of New Gameplay Today all about the game, how it plays on both mobile devices and PC, and more. Today, we're back with even more new Diablo Immortal footage and another developer interview. This time, we've got principal game designer Joe Grubb and senior game designer Scott Burgess joining your host John Carson to talk about the lore implications of Diablo Immortal, some of the big bads, returning characters, class changes, and even the game's audio design. 

Sorry, this video is not available

Diablo Immortal hits Android and iOS devices, as well as PC, on June 2 so hopefully, if you're excited about the first-ever Diablo game made from-the-ground-up for mobile, this tides you over until then.

For more about Diablo Immortal, be sure to head to the official Game Informer Diablo Immortal hub, which contains first looks at the game, news stories, and more. For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for early looks at Fueled Up, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge, MultiVersus, Bear And Breakfast, and more. 

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Diablo Immortal

Platform:

PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

June 2, 2022 (iOS, Android), TBA (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

