
  Disney Pixel RPG Is An 8-Bit Adventure Starring Mickey Mouse Coming To Mobile






            Developer-publisher GungHo Online Entertainment has revealed Disney Pixel RPG, an upcoming 8-bit adventure starring Mickey Mouse, Winnie the Pooh, Genie from Aladdin, Baymax from Big Hero 6, and many more beloved characters. It launches in Japan on iOS and Android devices this September, and is expected to be released in other regions of the world at a later date. 

According to the game's website, Disney Pixel RPG will feature a story about merging worlds, fast-paced strategic battles (with simple controls for mobile and even an auto-play function), customization for your own avatar character, and expeditions that allow you to send pixelated Disney characters out on missions to gather materials and more. Players in Japan can pre-register for Disney Pixel RPG right now ahead of the game's September 9 launch – there's no word on if other regions will be able to pre-register anytime soon, however. 

"The game world that these Disney characters call home have suddenly been invaded by strange programs, and are starting to break down," the story description reads on the game's website. "These previously isolated game worlds have merged, throwing all the characters into confusion. Take on the role of a player of these games and join Disney characters as you embark on an epic quest across multiple game worlds to restore order." 

The game's listing on Apple's App Store notes it will be free-to-play but will feature microtransactions. 

Here's a look at the game's combat: 

And here's a look at the game's avatar customization: 

Disney Pixel RPG launches in Japan on iOS and Android on September 9, 2024. There's no word on when to expect it in other regions of the world. 

For more Disney, read about how Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed launches this September as well. After that, check out Game Informer's list of upcoming video game remakes. 

Are you excited about Disney Pixel RPG? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Disney Pixel RPG

Platform:

iOS, Android

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

