
  Donkey Kong Lego Sets Join The Super Mario Lineup






            Lego and Nintendo have announced four new Donkey Kong sets joining the Super Mario lineup. 

Lego has continued to build out its Nintendo universe of sets with Super Mario and now, hot on the heels of The Super Mario Bros. Movie's release in theaters earlier this month, Donkey Kong (a major character in the movie) is joining the lineup. More specifically, four new sets, each available for purchase starting August 1, are coming and they feature Donkey Kong and some of his family members like Cranky, Diddy, Dixie, and Funky. 

Those four sets are Donkey Kong's Tree House Expansion Set, Diddy Kong's Mine Cart Ride Expansion Set, Dixie Kong's Jungle Jam Expansion Set, and Rambi the Rhino Expansion set. 

"The excitement continues to grow for the Lego Super Mario franchise with yet another playful update," Lego Group design director Simon Kent writes in a press release. "We're welcoming the iconic Donkey Kong into the LEGO Super Mario product line. We can't wait to see how the four Expansion Sets inspire kids to discover the new wild and colorful jungle from the Donkey Kong universe, whether that's hanging out in the tree house, riding a mine cart, jamming out with Dixie Kong, or exploring with Rambi." 

Let's break each of these sets down:

Donkey Kong's Tree House Expansion Set

$59.99
555 pieces

Diddy Kong's Mine Cart Ride Expansion Set

$109.99
1157 pieces

Dixie Kong's Jungle Jam Expansion Set

$26.99
174 pieces

Rambi the Rhino Expansion Set

$10.99
106 pieces

All four of these sets will be available from Lego and select retailers on August 1, 2023.

For more about Lego, check out these four new Sonic the Hedgehog sets coming August 1 as well. 

Are you going to pick any of these Donkey Kong Lego sets up? Let us know in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

