
  Don't Nod Delays Lost Records: Bloom & Rage To Give The Next Life Is Strange Some Space






            Developer Don't Nod Entertainment has delayed its upcoming two-part narrative-driven adventure game, Lost Records: Bloom & Rage, to early 2025. As for why, the team wants to give its spiritual cousin, Life Is Strange: Double Exposure, some space to shine later this year. 

Lost Records was originally due out in late 2024, which is also when the next Life is Strange is set to launch. Instead of competing with Life Is Strange, a series that Don't Nod created with the first Life Is Strange and continued with Life Is Strange 2 before Double Exposure developer Deck Nine took over with 2017's Before the Storm and 2021's True Colors, the studio decided to push to 2025. 

"We've made the decision to move the release dates of Lost Records: Bloom & Rage to early 2025. We know you're all excited for both Lost Records and the new Life Is Strange game, and we wanted to ensure both have adequate space to shine. The wait will be worth it."

We've made the decision to move the release dates of Lost Records: Bloom & Rage to early 2025. We know you're all excited for both Lost Records and the new Life is Strange game, and we wanted to ensure both have adequate space to shine. The wait will be worth it! pic.twitter.com/PH1O7z3uUy
— DON'T NOD (@DONTNOD_Ent) June 28, 2024

Life Is Strange: Double Exposure launches October 29, and now, Lost Records: Bloom & Rage, which will be released in two parts, will launch sometime early next year. Both games are set to release on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. 

In the meantime, watch the reveal trailer for Lost Records: Bloom & Rage, and then watch the Life Is Strange: Double Exposure reveal trailer. After that, check out this extended Double Exposure gameplay trailer to learn how the game will acknowledge the first Life Is Strange's endings. 

Are you going to play Life Is Strange: Double Exposure and Lost Records: Bloom & Rage? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Lost Records: Bloom & Rage

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

