
  Dragon's Dogma 2 Has An Uncapped Framerate, But No Visual Presets Or Modes On Consoles






            Dragon's Dogma 2, the long-awaited sequel in Capcom's fantasy RPG series, is right around the corner, hitting PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on March 22. I visited Capcom last month to play the game for about three hours, and you can read Game Informer's Dragon's Dogma 2 preview impressions here, but I also spoke to director Hideaki Itsuno about how the game will run on consoles. 

Sitting in Capcom's San Francisco, California, office, just 30 minutes to go until my interview with Itsuno, I saw that he tweeted about Dragon's Dogma 2's framerate. Specifically, he revealed on X (formerly Twitter) that Dragon's Dogma 2 will release with an uncapped framerate. It was an interesting announcement, considering "uncapped framerate" is typically something I associate with PCs – not the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. 

ドラゴンズドグマ 2 は可変フレームレートに対応していますよ！

Dragon's Dogma 2 will release with an uncapped framerate!#DD2、#ドラゴンズドグマ2、#dragonsdogma2 pic.twitter.com/NXID8FZWCL
— Hideaki Itsuno (@tomqe) February 13, 2024

But, with that tweet out, I took my interview as an opportunity to learn more about what this means for console players. It turns out, Dragon's Dogma 2 will not feature multiple visual modes – there won't be a Graphics mode and a Performance mode, like what you might see in games like the recently released Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, for example. Instead, Capcom's latest will feature one singular mode that's on by default, and that mode also features uncapped framerate. 

"The game has an uncapped framerate," Itsuno tells me through a translator. "We're aiming to go at around or higher than 30 FPS. That is for consoles as well. There are some functions that you can turn on and off, but there aren't multiple sets of options that you can change at once [likely alluding to visual presets seen in the options of other games on consoles today]. But yeah, the frame rate will come uncapped for all consoles."

Just to be sure, I asked for clarification around the potential for multiple modes and was told Dragon's Dogma 2 has just one visual mode, so don't expect a preset that prioritizes performance over visual fidelity or vice versa. 

Dragon's Dogma 2 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on March 22. 

For more, check out the latest Dragon's Dogma 2 gameplay trailer, and then find out why it's one of our most anticipated games of the year. After that, read about how Dragon's Dogma 2's main story campaign is about as long as the first game's, and then read about Capcom's decision to have just one save file in the game. 

How do you feel about Capcom's approach to visual settings with Dragon's Dogma 2? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

