
  Dragon Age 4's New Name Is 'Dragon Age: The Veilguard,' First Gameplay Look Next Week






            Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, the next game in the series, has a new name – Dragon Age: The Veilguard. BioWare first teased the game back in 2018, and we later learned it was called Dragon Age: Dreadwolf in 2022. Now, BioWare has changed the name to Dragon Age: The Veilguard, with a promise of a first look at its gameplay next week on Tuesday, June 11. 

As for why, the team explains it's about the characters that will make up the companions you meet in the game in a new blog post. 

"At BioWare, we create worlds of adventure, conflict and companionship, where you're at the center of it all. As fans of our franchise know, every Dragon Age game has delivered a new standalone story. Set in the world of Thedas, these tales explore epic locales and threats, always thrusting you into a new conflict. Each game also introduces a new lead hero – The Warden, Hawke, The Inquisitor – that you can call your own. You can expect all that, and more, with the new game. And of course, much like your unique hero, it wouldn't be a Dragon Age game without an amazing cast of companions – right? 

Each of the seven unique characters that make up your companions will have deep and compelling storylines where the decisions you make will impact your relationships with them – as well as their lives. You'll unite this team of unforgettable heroes as you take on a terrifying new threat unleashed on the world. Naturally, the Dread Wolf still has an important part in this tale, but you and your companions – not your enemies – are the heart of this new experience.

So, to capture what this game is all about, we changed the name as the original title didn't show just how strongly we feel about our new heroes, their stories and how you'll need to bring them together to save all of Thedas."

Elsewhere in the announcement, BioWare seemingly confirms earlier reporting that this game – the fourth mainline Dragon Age entry in the series – was at one point being experimented on as a "multiplayer concept." However, as time and experimentation went on, the team decided to re-focus on its roots with "an incredible single player game, with all the choices, characters, and world building you'd expect from us." 

There's no release date for Dragon Age: The Veilguard but BioWare said last year the game's full reveal would be happening this summer – it sounds like that's next week. 

What do you think of the new name? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

