
  Dragon's Dogma 2 Main Story Campaign Is About The Same Length As The First Game






            With Dragon's Dogma 2 hitting PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC later this month on March 22, I visited Capcom's San Francisco, California, office to play the game for several hours. You can read my preview impressions of Dragon's Dogma 2 here, but I also had the chance to speak with director Hideaki Itsuno, too. 

With more than a decade between the first Dragon's Dogma and its sequel, I was curious if he and his Capcom team approached the size of player offerings differently. If you stick to mostly the golden path – the main story campaign – of Dragon's Dogma, you're looking at around 37 hours, according to HowLongToBeat, which aggregates players' playtime for an average. Itsuno says to expect a similar length in the main narrative of Dragon's Dogma 2. 

"For players that only focus on the things [to] go through the [game's campaign], the playtime itself shouldn't change that dramatically from the first game," Itsuno tells me through a translator. "For the people that want to do everything, that see many things and are like, 'Oh, I want to do this thing, oh that looks interesting,' well, we put a lot of effort into adding as many elements as possible for this. There's many things that could catch players' attention and for those people, they will probably find their playtime significantly longer." 

For reference, a completionist run of Dragon's Dogma runs, on average, about 102 hours, according to HowLongToBeat, meaning Dragon's Dogma 2 likely offers more than a hundred hours of content to discover and play through if you seek it out. 

Dragon's Dogma 2 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on March 22. 

For more, check out the latest Dragon's Dogma 2 gameplay trailer, and then find out why it's one of our most anticipated games of the year. After that, read about how Dragon's Dogma 2 will feature an uncapped framerate but no visual preset modes on consoles, and then read about why Dragon's Dogma 2 only has one save file. 

Are you going to sink 100 hours into Dragon's Dogma 2 this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

