
  Dying Light Studio Techland Reveals Another Look At Its New Narrative-Driven Fantasy RPG






            Last year, Dying Light 2 Stay Human studio, Techland, revealed the first look at its unannounced fantasy RPG that's now in development. Now, the studio has released another conceptual look at the game. 

Back when Techland revealed it was working on this game in May of last year, it referred to the unannounced game as a "AAA open-world action-RPG in a fantasy setting." Today's new concept art features some additional details, this time with more of a focus on how the game is a narrative-driven epic. 

"We never stop improving," Techland's tweet reads. "Our newest game is set to be a narrative-driven fantasy epic with an exotic open world ready to be explored. We strive to create a compelling story-focused AAA title that combines and refines the best aspects of gameplay that Techland is known for." 

We never stop improving!

Our newest game is set to be a narrative-driven #fantasy epic with an exotic open world ready to be explored. We strive to create a compelling story-focused #AAA title that combines and refines the best aspects of gameplay that Techland is known for. pic.twitter.com/SuJ8vVWbrI
— Techland (@TechlandGames) March 16, 2023

As you can see in the concept art above, this still-untitled game continues to look intriguing. Here's hoping we learn more soon!

While waiting to learn more, read our thoughts on Techland's latest in Game Informer's Dying Light 2 Stay Human review and then check out this other piece of concept art from Techland's in-development open-world fantasy RPG. 

Are you excited for this new Techland property? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dying Light 2 Stay Human

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

February 4, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), TBA (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

