
  Ed Boon Promises Three Mortal Kombat 1 Trailers Tomorrow For San Diego Comic Con






            Mortal Kombat 1 will make a big appearance at San Diego Comic Con this year.

Mortal Kombat creator and director of MK1, Ed Boon, tweeted yesterday what fans can expect at the SDCC panel, “Resetting Mortal Kombat: A New Beginning With Mortal Kombat 1,” tomorrow, and it’s going to be perhaps the most significant drop of new information we’ve received for the game yet. Boon says MK1 voice actors will be there alongside NetherRealm Studios developers to tell the “making of” story of the game. Plus, there will be three new MK1 trailers during the panel, including gameplay and a “surprise.” 

Mortal Kombat fans at San Diego Comic-Con. Wanna see a TON of new #MortalKombat1 stuffs?

- MK1 voice actors
- MK1 team members & "making of"
- 3 trailers! WTF? (game-play + Surprise!)

..then join us Friday at our panel! Hosted by @briantong pic.twitter.com/CLtD705udG
— Ed Boon (@noobde) July 20, 2023

As for when, the “Resetting Mortal Kombat” SDCC panel begins tomorrow, July  21, at 3:15 p.m. PT and lasts one full hour, ending at 4:15 p.m. PT. If you’re ready for new Mortal Kombat 1 footage, be sure to tune in!

MK1 was announced two months ago with a teaser trailer indicating the wider Mortal Kombat universe has been completely reset (hence the “1” in the title). The following month, in June, NetherRealm released our first look at MK1 gameplay with a trailer that featured new looks at the roster, story details, the reveal of Kameo fighters, and more. 

During Summer Game Fest, we went hands-on with it that same month and had a blast with the Kameo fighters and gory and fun fighting action. You can check out some of that action in our MK1 New Gameplay Today here. 

The latest news NetherRealm released about MK1 was a trailer earlier this month revealing Smoke and Rain in the game’s fighter roster. And tomorrow, we’ll receive more information, including three trailers. 

Mortal Kombat 1 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC on September 19.

Are you tuning in tomorrow to learn more about Mortal Kombat 1? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

