
  Elden Ring Expansion, Shadow Of The Erdtree, Revealed






            Just a few days after the one-year anniversary of Elden Ring's release, developer From Software has revealed that an expansion for the game is currently in development. 

Revealed by the official Elden Ring Twitter account, this expansion is called Shadow of the Erdtree. Not much is known about the expansion, but those familiar with the game's lore (especially those that have completed the game) might be able to piece together what this new adventure will consist of. Alongside the news, From Software has released what appears to be a piece of concept art for the expansion. 

Check it out for yourself in the tweet below: 

Rise, Tarnished, and let us walk a new path together.
An upcoming expansion for #ELDENRING Shadow of the Erdtree, is currently in development.
We hope you look forward to new adventures in the Lands Between. pic.twitter.com/cjJYijM7Mw
— ELDEN RING (@ELDENRING) February 28, 2023

Rise, Tarnished, and let us walk a new path together. An upcoming expansion for Elden Ring, Shadow of the Erdtree, is currently in development. We hope you look forward to new adventures in the Lands Between.

This is exciting news for fans of Elden Ring, but given that From Software has only revealed the expansion is in development, with no release date or window in sight, it might be a while before our return to the Lands Between. 

In the meantime, read Game Informer's Elden Ring review to find out why we gave the game a 10. 

What do you want to see out of this Elden Ring expansion? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

