
  Elden Ring Patch Brings Buffs, Nerfs, Additional Map Options, New Quest Phases, And More






            Bandai Namco and From Software announced yesterday that Elden Ring has already sold more than 12 million copies, revealing that the companies are planning to extend the brand beyond just video games. Now, From Software has released a new update for Elden Ring, Patch 1.03, and it brings a ton of changes and fixes to the open-world, action RPG. 

There are some big changes within Patch 1.03 and depending on your current build and what you’ve been looking for in Elden Ring, you’re going to love or hate this patch. That’s because on one hand, it adds new map functionality, NPCs, additional NPC quest phases, and more. On the other hand, though, this patch nerfs some player-favorite weapons and skills like the Sword of Night and Flame and the Hoarfrost Stomp (plus, the very-good Mimic Tear ash summon has been nerfed as well). This patch is now live on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Here are all of the major changes in Patch 1.03: 

Additional Elements Added

Added a function to record an icon and the name of an NPC on the map when you encounter that NPC.
Added NPC Jar-Bairn.
Added new quest phases for the following NPCs: Diallos/ Nepheli Loux/ Kenneth Haight/ Gatekeeper Gostoc.
Added some summonable NPCs in multiple situations.
Increased the number of patterns of objects player can imitate when using Mimic’s Veil.
Added night background music for some open field area.

Bug Fixed

Fixed a bug that prevented summoned NPCs from taking damage in some boss battles.
Fixed a bug that sometime prevented the player from obtaining item after boss battle.
Fixed a bug that causes dialogue to be skipped when talking to NPCs and using custom key configurations.
Fixed a bug that causes the player to freeze when riding.
Fixed a bug that causes arcane to scale incorrectly for some weapons.
In situation where the player cannot obtain more than 2 talisman pouches, added talisman pouch to Twin Maiden Husks shop line up.
Fixed a bug that prevented the user from warping to sites of grace from the map at the end of the game.
Fixed a bug that prevented the player from moving to the next area after the battle with the Fire Giant.
Fixed a bug which causes some weapons to have incorrect scaling after strengthening.
Fixed a bug which causes some weapons to not use stat scaling.
Fixed hang-ups in certain occasions.
Fixed a bug which incorrectly displays multiplayer area boundary when playing online.
Fixed a bug that allows player to activate Erdtree Greatshield’s weapon skill without absorbing an attack using a special combination of item and incantation.
Fixed a bug which causes Fire’s Deadly Sin incantation to have different effect.
Fixed a bug with the Ash of War, Determination and Royal Knight's Resolve, where the damage buff will also apply to other weapons without that skill.
Adjusted the visual effect of Unseen Form spell.
Deleted the Ragged armor set from the game which was mistakenly obtainable in previous patch.
Fixed a bug that causes some hostile NPCs to drop Furlcalling Finger Remedy.
Fixed a bug that causes incorrect sound effect to play in some situations.
Fixed a bug which causes visual animation and hitboxes to not be displayed correctly on some maps.
Fixed bugs which causes incorrect visual and behavior for some enemies.
Fixed a bug that causes incorrect stat parameter for some armor.
Text fixes.
Other performance improvement and bug fixes.

Balance Changes

Increased the drop rate of Smithing Stone for some enemies.
Added Smithing Stone to some early game shop line up.
Increased shield’s effectiveness.
Increased the damage for all offensive cracked pot items.
Increased the damage for the following items: Spark Aromatic/Poison Spraymist.
Increased the effect duration for the following items: Uplifting Aromatic/ Ironjar Aromatic.
Increased HP healing for Torrent when using the following items: Rowa Raisin/ Sweet Raisin/ Frozen Raisin
Reduced FP consumption and increased the damage of the following sorceries: Glintstone Cometshard/ Comet/ Night Comet
Increased the damage of the following sorceries: Gravity Well/ Collapsing Stars/ Crystal Barrage
Decreased FP consumption of the following sorceries: Star Shower/ Rock Blaster/ Gavel of Haima/ Founding Rain of Stars/ Stars of Ruin/Greatblade Phalanx/Magic Downpour/ Loretta’s Greatbow/ Loretta’s Mastery/ Carian Greatsword/ Carian Piercer/ Shard Spiral
Raised projectile speed and range of Great Glintstone Shard
Decreased Ash of War, Hoarfrost Stomp's damage and increase cast time.
Increased Ash of War, Bloody Slash's self-inflict damage while slightly lowering the damage and increasing the cast time.
Decreased weapon skill, Sword of Night and Flame’s damage.
Increased FP consumption and lower duration of Ash of War, Barricade Shield.
Changed FP consumption timing of Ash of War, Prelate’s Charge.
Decreased the damage of spirit summoned when using the item Mimic Tear Ash and changed the spirit’s behavior pattern.
Other enemy and weapon balance changes

For more about Elden Ring, read Game Informer’s Elden Ring review to find out why we think it’s one of the greatest games ever made, and then check out this story about how Elden Ring had the second-best launch month sales of any game in the past 12 months. Read about this Elden Ring player that beat Godrick the Grafted with bananas after that. 

Are you excited or sad about this patch? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

