
  Epic Games Reveals Fortnite's Next Live Event, The Big Bang






            After four seasons of brand new content, Epic Games injected a healthy dose of nostalgia into Fornite Chapter 4's fifth season, officially called Season OG, by bringing back the Chapter 1 map for players to experience once more. Season OG has included weekly updates to add items from Chapter 1's various seasons, too, making it a fun romp through what Fortnite was like years ago. However, Season OG ends on December 2, which is also when Fortnite's next live event, The Big Bang, goes live. 

The Big Bang begins on Saturday, December 2, at 11 a.m. PT/2 p.m. ET, and Epic says, "This event marks a new beginning for Fortnite." 

✅ Unforgettable event
✅ Evolving all things as you know them
✅ Memorable reveal toward the end

December 2, 2023. 2pm ET. pic.twitter.com/xAhMKtmwiG
— Fortnite (@FortniteGame) November 21, 2023

Before the event begins, Epic says players will see The Big Bang in the Battle Royale tile in the Discover section of Fortnite 30 minutes prior to its start; that way, you can jump in before the event starts to link up with friends and get your cosmetics in order. And speaking of friends, The Big Bang will support parties of up to four players. 

The Big Bang will be available anywhere you play the most current build of Fortnite, including PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC. If you won't be near a dedicated gaming device during the event, you can check it out using Xbox Cloud Gaming, Nvidia GeForce Now, and Amazon Luna services to play Fortnite via cloud streaming on your computer or mobile device. 

"To prepare for The Big Bang, Fortnite experiences made by Epic will be disable starting 12 p.m. ET on December 2," Epic writes in a blog post. "Creator-made experiences will remain enabled until downtime for Fortnite v28.00 starts at 11:30 p.m. ET."

While waiting for The Big Bang event, read up on everything you need to know about Fortnite Chapter 4: Season OG, and then read about how Epic says it's aware it missed the mark with a recent cosmetic restriction update for Fortnite. 

Are you hopping into Fortnite's Big Bang event next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

