
  Every Activision Blizzard Game Franchise Xbox Now Owns






            After nearly two years since the initial announcement, Microsoft has finally and officially acquired Activision Blizzard for a colossal $69 billion. This means that Activision Blizzard, which is the company behind franchises like Call of Duty and Diablo, is now part of Xbox's first-party umbrella. As a result, Xbox's stable of IPs and game franchises has become much larger, welcoming the likes of Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and more. 

While many know Activision Blizzard as the company behind industry juggernauts like Call of Duty and Overwatch, the company is home to plenty more games. In light of today's news, we've decided to create an easy place to see every Activision Blizzard game franchise that Xbox now owns. 

Every Activision Blizzard Game Franchise Xbox Now Owns

Call of Duty
Crash Bandicoot (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Diablo 
Gabriel Knight (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Geometry Wars (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Guitar Hero (after Activision acquired RedOctane in 2007)
Gun
Hearthstone
Heroes of the Storm
Heavy Gear
Heretic (after Activision acquired Raven Software in 1997)
Interstate '76
King's Quest (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Laura Bow Mystery Series (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
The Lost Vikings
Overwatch
Phantasmagoria (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Pitfall
Police Quest (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Prototype
Quest for Glory (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Singularity
Ski Resort Tycoon
Skylanders 
Soldier of Fortune
Space Quest (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Spryo (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Starcraft
SWAT (a part of the Police Quest series Activision acquired after purchasing Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Tenchu (but only the games released before Activision sold the franchise rights to From Software in 2004)
Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and associated titles 
True Crime 
Ultimate Soccer Manager (after Activision acquired Vivendi Universal in 2008)
Warcraft
World of Warcraft
Zork (after Activision acquired developer Infocom in 1986)
Every King Game Xbox Now Owns

Note: Activision Blizzard purchased King in February of 2016 for $5.9 billion

Bubble Saga
Bubble Witch Saga
Hoop de Loop Saga
Candy Crush Saga
Pyramid Solitaire Saga
Pet Rescue Saga
Papa Pear Saga
Farm Heroes Saga
Pepper Panic Saga
Bubble Witch 2 Saga
Diamond Digger Saga
Candy Crush Soda Saga
AlphaBetty Saga
Scrubby Dubby Saga
Paradise Bay
Blossom Blast Saga
Candy Crush Jelly Saga
Farm Heroes Super Saga
Shuffle Cats
Bubble Witch 3 Saga
Legend of Solgard
Diamond Diaries Saga
Candy Crush Friends Saga
Pet Rescue Puzzle Saga
Knighthood – Epic RPG Knights
Crash Bandicoot: On The Run!
Rebel Riders
While many of these games and franchises have been dormant for years, even decades in some instances, they are nonetheless under the Xbox umbrella now. This means Xbox could theoretically revive any of them, or create sequels to games on the list. 

For example, just this week, Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick reportedly held an all-hands employee meeting where he was interviewed by former late-night host James Corden about a potential Guitar Hero revival and more. Speaking of Kotick, he will remain Activision Blizzard's CEO through the end of the year after Xbox head Phil Spencer asked him to help with the company transition. 

What franchises on this list do you hope to see new games from now that Xbox owns them? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Xbox Series X

Release Date:

November 10, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

