
  Ex Machina, Hereditary Film Distributor A24 Is Partnering With Kojima Productions For Death Stranding Movie






            Update, 9:37 a.m. ET, 12/14/23:

Earlier today, word got out that A24 and Kojiima Productions were partnering up for a live-action feature film adaptation of Death Stranding. News of this partnership came by way of a new A24 shirt adorned with some strands from Death Stranding; the t-shirt's description revealed A24 and Kojima Productions had entered an official partnership.

At the time, official channels for Kojima Productions and A24 had not said anything regarding this partnership. But now, the official A24 Twitter account has confirmed the partnership. 

"It's official: we've partnered with Kojiima Productions on the live-action feature film adaptation of Hideo Kojima's acclaimed video game, Death Stranding," the tweet reads.

It’s official: we’ve partnered with Kojima Productions on the live-action feature film adaptation of Hideo Kojima’s acclaimed video game, DEATH STRANDING. pic.twitter.com/ypZGRiZVvY
— A24 (@A24) December 14, 2023

Kojima Productions also confirmed the news on a separate blog post on its website. It says the A24 film "promises to delve into the mysteries surrounding the apocalyptic event called 'Death Stranding,' which blurred the lines between life and death, and brought forth nightmarish creatures into a world on the brink of collapse."

In the blog, Kojima writes:

"A24 was born into this world about 10 years ago, their presence is singular within the industry, they are like no other. The films they are delivering to the world are high in quality and very innovative. I have been attracted to their creations and they have even inspired my own work. Their innovative approach to storytelling aligns with what Kojima Productions has been doing for the last 8 years. Now, we are making a Death Stranding movie together. There are a lot of “game adaptation films" out there but what we are creating is not just a direct translation of the game. The intention is that our audience will not only be fans of the games, but our film will be for anyone who loves cinema. We are creating a Death Stranding universe that has never been seen before, achievable only through the medium of film, it will be born.”

There's no word on when to expect the Death Stranding film to release. 

The original story continues below...

Original Story, 8:13 a.m. ET, 12/14/23:

Kojima Productions has partnered with A24, the film distributor of Ex Machina and Hereditary, on a live-action adaptation of 2019's Death Stranding. A feature film adaptation has been in the works for a bit, with Death Stranding director Hideo Kojima revealing that he's "deeply involved in producing, supervising, plotting, design, and content of the film adaptation," but not handling director responsibility.

Now, thanks to a t-shirt description on the official A24 website, we know Kojima Productions is teaming up with A24 to make the movie happen. 

"It's official: we've partnered with Kojima Productions on the live-action feature film adaptation of Hideo Kojima's acclaimed video game, Death Stranding," the shirt's description reads.

The shirt is not yet available to purchase but here's what it looks like: 

As you can see in the image above, the shirt features the A24 logo with the Death Stranding strands hanging down below it. It looks great, and will cost $40 when it's available for purchase. A24's website says it's "coming soon." 

While this t-shirt description has spread the word about this A24 x Kojima Productions team-up, official A24 or Kojima Productions (or Kojima himself) channels haven't yet acknowledged it. Given Kojima's love of A24 films and the kind of movies A24 typically makes, A24 seems like a great fit for a live-action Death Stranding film. 

While waiting to learn more, read Game Informer's Death Stranding review and then read this opinion on why one Game Informer editor thinks it's one of the best games of the last generation. Watch the Death Stranding 2 announcement trailer after that. 

Are you excited for a live-action Death Stranding movie? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Death Stranding

Platform:

PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

November 8, 2019 (PlayStation 4), July 14, 2020 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Death Stranding 2

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Death Stranding Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

September 24, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 30, 2022 (PC), TBA (Mac, iOS)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

