
  Exclusive: Listen To A Full Track From Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical Featuring Laura Bailey And Ashley Johnson






            Game Informer can exclusively reveal a full track from Summerfall Studios’ upcoming Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical called “Adrift.”

This track features the voice of Laura Bailey (Abby in The Last of Us Part II, Mary Jane in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2), who plays protagonist Grace, a college dropout in the game’s modern fantasy world granted the power of a Muse. Grace uses this power “to find out the truth behind her predecessor’s death before time runs out.” You might also recognize Ashley Johnson (Ellie in The Last of Us) in the song. She voices Calliope, who joins Bailey’s Grace in “Adrift.” 

Grammy-nominated composer Austin Wintory (Journey, The Pathless, Assassin’s Creed Syndicate) says this recording is actually a live one. He tells us, “I made a studio recording of the El Rey Theater live version of the main song, ‘Adrift.’” And you can listen to it for yourself by using the music player at the bottom of this article, or by watching the video below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

In Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical, it will be up to players to decide who Grace’s allies are, who she can trust, and who she can betray in the hand-illustrated narrative adventure. Regardless of your decisions, it promises to treat players to a fully orchestrated score performed by an all-star cast, meant to make you feel “as though you’re right there on the stage.” On top of that, there are thousands of potential variants based on your choices, meaning your soundtrack could be wildly different from anyone else’s. 

Tripod and Montaigne join Wintory in orchestrating the score and soundtrack. Bailey and Johnson are joined by fellow The Last of Us co-star Troy Baker and other performers, including Rahul Kohli, Janina Gavinkar, and Felicia Day. 

Sorry, this video is not available

Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on August 10, 2023. 

For more, read about how Summerfall Studios delayed Stray Gods: The Role-Playing Musical to give players time to play Baldur’s Gate 3, and then check out this story about the game’s inclusion in the 2023 Tribeca Film Festival. 

Let us know what you think of the song in the comments below!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Stray Gods: The Roleplaying Musical

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

