
  Fallout: London, The Expansive Fallout 4 Overhaul Mod, Gets April Release Date In New Trailer






            Team FOLON revealed Fallout: London, its DLC-sized mod for Fallout 4, back in 2021, and it captured the interest of players quickly. We got a 2023 release window alongside a new trailer back in 2022, but the mod needed more time, missing a release this year. Now, Team FOLON has revealed Fallout: London will be released in April, as reported by Eurogamer. 

More specifically, it will be available on April 23, 2024. The team announced this date in a new developer update released on December 23. In it, the team shows off more of the work it's done since its last trailer, highlighting well-worn and lesser-known locales of London alongside enemies, weapons, and more. It ends with the April 23, 2024, release date announcement. 

Check out the Fallout: London release date announcement for yourself below: 

Team FOLON also posted a statement on Twitter explaining its thoughts about the release date and more. "Despite being content-complete as planned, upon careful consideration, we've recognized that our testing process may not be as robust as we desire," it writes. "To be candid, the main factor influencing this decision lies in the composition of our scripting team. A significant portion of our team members come from a region affected by conflict, which has understandably impacted their focus on the mod. As such, it caused us to fall behind schedule. 

"Only through a clever reorganization and reskilling of team members have we managed to catch up, but it has come at the cost of testing. Our commitment is to provide you with a polished and as-close-to-a-flawless experience as we can. We only get one chance at a first release. We aim to deliver a memorable Fallout: London experience and wish to avoid any release issues, such as those that have plagued other community or industry projects recently."

Team FOLON says that's why the release date is now April 23, 2024, instead of one previously planned for this year. It also notes this sets Fallout: London's release closer to the release of Amazon Studios' Fallout TV series, which premieres April 12. 

For more about Fallout: London, watch the reveal trailer here and then check out this trailer from last year. 

[Source: Eurogamer]

Are you going to check out Fallout: London next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

