
  Fallout 4 New-Gen Update Brings 60 FPS To PS5, Xbox Series X/S Later This Month






            Fallout 4's new-gen update hits PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S later this month, bringing with it 60 FPS, increased resolutions, stability improvements, and more. Hot on the heels of Amazon's Fallout TV series, which premiered yesterday with all eight episodes available for viewing, the Fallout 4 new-gen update arrives on April 25. 

With this update, PS5 and Xbox Series X/S players will get a new native Fallout 4 application (assuming they already own previous-gen versions of the RPG), Performance and Quality Mode settings in the game, stability improvements and fixes, 60 FPS gameplay, and increased resolutions. On previous-gen consoles, Fallout 4 players will receive a free update with stability improvements and login and quest fixes. 

If you're a PC player, there's a free Fallout 4 update coming to that platform as well. It will add widescreen and ultra-widescreen support to the game with fixes to Creation Kit and a variety of quest updates as well. PC versions of the game on Steam, the Microsoft Store, and GOG will receive stability, mod, and bug fixes. Plus, the game will soon be available for purchase on the Epic Game Store, and if you have a Steam Deck, Fallout 4 will be verified for it when this update goes live later this month. 

Alongside the new-gen update, developer Bethesda Game Studios is releasing the following free Creation Club items: 

Enclave Remnants

Enclave Remnants brings the Pre-War cabal, The Enclave, into the Fallout 4 storyline, according to a blog post. In a new quest called Echoes of the Past, players will be tasked with stopping The Enclave from spreading their ideology throughout the Commonwealth.

Alongside workshop items and the Enclave Colonel uniform, players can get the following previously released Creation Club items: 

Enclave Weapon skins
Enclave Armor skins
Tesla Cannon
Hellfire Power Armor
X-02 Power Armor
Heavy Incinerator
Makeshift Weapon Pack

Bethesda says this weapon pack includes a variety of "unconventional objects that have been transformed into deatly weapons," including the Baseball Launcher, Nail Gun, and Piggy Bank. 

Halloween Workshop

Leftover from an ill-fated Halloween party thrown by the New England Technocrat Society, this pack includes 38 new Halloween decorations including witches, cauldrons, ghouls, pumpkins, skeletons, and more. 

The Fallout 4 new-gen update hits PS5 and Xbox Series X/S on April 25. 

For more, check out the teaser trailer for Amazon's Fallout released back in December, and then read Game Informer's review of the show here. After that, read Game Informer's reviews of Fallout 4 and Fallout 76. 

Are you jumping back into Fallout 4 with this new-gen update? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), April 25, 2024 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

