
  Final Fantasy VII Rebirth's Director Has Been Promoted To Square Enix's Executive Staff






            Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, the massive sequel to 2020's Final Fantasy VII Remake, hit PlayStation 5 back in February to acclaim from both critics and fans alike. We gave the game an 8.5 out of 10 and you can read about why in Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review. Now, a little over a month since the game's release, Square Enix has promoted Rebirth's director, Naoki Hamaguchi, to its executive staff alongside four others joining the ranks. 

The other promotions include that of Octopath Traveler series producer Tomoya Asano, Foamstars general manager Takeshi Nozue, Takayuki Hamada, and The DioField Chronicle producer Takamasa Shiba, as reported by Game Developer. These five Square Enix developers join others in the company's executive staff, like Final Fantasy XVI director and Final Fantasy XIV producer/director Naoki Yoshida and Final Fantasy series producer Yoshinori Kitase. 

Here's the full list of Square Enix executives after these recent additions: 

Takashi Kiryu
Tomoya Asano 
Tomoyoshi Osaki
Tsuneto Okuno
Yoshinori Kitase
Yosuke Saito
Ryutaro Sasaki
Hideaki Sato
Takamasa Shiba
Hajime Seki
Takeshi Nozue 
Naoki Hamaguchi 
Takayuki Hamada 
Kei Hirono
Katsuyoshi Matsuura
Atsushi Matsuda
Yuu Miyake
Naoki Yoshida

For more about Hamaguchi and his latest directorial effort, read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review and then read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth cover story for behind-the-scenes details and more. Be sure to visit Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth coverage hub for exclusive information about the game, interviews, videos, and more. 

[Source: Game Developer]

Have you played Final Fantasy VII Rebirth? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

