
  Final Fantasy VII Rebirth Hits PS5 This February






            Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, the sequel to 2020's Final Fantasy VII Remake, will hit PlayStation 5 on February 29, 2024. This follows news from Summer Game Fest back in June where Square Enix announced Rebirth will require two discs and launch in "early 2024." 

Alongside news of Rebirth's release date, Square Enix and PlayStation also released a new and expansive trailer during today's State of Play. In it, we get our first looks at characters like Cait Sith, Vincent Valentine, and more. We also get to see The Gold Saucer, some fun minigames inspired by the visual style of Final Fantasy VII on PS1, and more of the game's open area exploration, which features ridable chocobos, vehicles, and segways. 

Check out the Final Fantasy VII Rebirth release date trailer for yourself below: 

Here are some screenshots from today's trailer: 

Following the release of this new trailer, producer Yoshinori Kitase, director Naoki Hamaguchi, and creative director Tetsuya Nomura each released a message on Twitter celebrating today's news. We've posted each below:

Yoshinori Kitase, Producer

To celebrate today's announcements we're sharing messages from the development team behind Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, starting with producer Yoshinori Kitase. [1/3] #FF7R pic.twitter.com/tDm5w1Grl7
— FINAL FANTASY VII (@finalfantasyvii) September 14, 2023

Naoki Hamaguchi, Director

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth director Naoki Hamaguchi has a special message for everyone looking forward to the game. [2/3] #FF7R pic.twitter.com/gd2Vk8B93k
— FINAL FANTASY VII (@finalfantasyvii) September 14, 2023

Tetsuya Nomura, Creative Director

Rounding off our messages from the development team with words from Final Fantasy VII Rebirth creative director Tetsuya Nomura. [3/3] #FF7R pic.twitter.com/TbKZlRkhaR
— FINAL FANTASY VII (@finalfantasyvii) September 14, 2023

The end of today's trailer also revealed a special Collector's Edition of Rebirth:

For more about Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, check out its reveal trailer from last year and then read about how the entire Final Fantasy VII Remake project will be a three-game series. Read about how the game's co-director, Motuma Toriyama, says you don't need to play Final Fantasy VII Remake to enjoy Rebirth after that and then check out this Rebirth trailer from earlier this summer. 

Are you excited for Final Fantasy VII Rebirth? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

