
  Final Fantasy 14 Xbox Series X/S Version Announced, Releasing Next Spring






            Final Fantasy XIV is finally coming to Xbox Series X/S next spring. 

Xbox head Phil Spencer joined Final Fantasy XIV director Naoki Yoshida on stage today, during Day 1 of Final Fantasy XIV Fan Festival 2023, to reveal the news.

Here's what Spencer had to say:

"It's great to be here with so many warriors of light. Thank you for the very warm welcome. The Xbox community is passionate about games, and like so many players around the world, the Final Fantasy series is one that gets lots of love from Team Xbox. And we're very happy to announce the Xbox version of Final Fantasy XIV with my friend Yoshida-San today. Together with his team, we are bringing the best online experience of this game to Xbox fans everywhere, and through crossplay, you can experience Final Fantasy XIV with old and new players alike."

Spencer says this is a seminal moment "in our relationship with you and the Final Fantasy team as we look to partner more closely together in the future," perhaps teasing more Final Fantasy to come to Xbox down the line. 

While the game will be playable on both Xbox Series X and Series S, Yoshida says only the Series X version will support 4K resolution. The Xbox version of Final Fantasy XIV is expected sometime during the spring of 2024. Before the release of 7.0 and during Patch 6.5X, there will be an open beta scheduled for the Xbox version. 

This means the Dawntrail expansion will be playable on Xbox Series X/S at launch. Like with other platforms, Final Fantasy XIV will only be available as a digital release on Xbox. You can go straight from the Open Beta to the full version, too, as saved data and progress transfer over. 

For more about Final Fantasy XIV, watch the reveal trailer for Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail and then read Game Informer's Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker review. 

Are you going to be checking out Final Fantasy XIV on Xbox Series X/S? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

July 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC

Release Date:

August 27, 2013 (PlayStation 3, PC), April 14, 2014 (PlayStation 4), May 25, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

