
  Final Fantasy VII Rebirth Is The Second-Highest Rated Game In The Series On Metacritic






            Final Fantasy VII Rebirth hits PlayStation 5 exclusively on February 29, but reviews for Square Enix's latest entry in its Final Fantasy VII remake trilogy dropped yesterday. We enjoyed the game a lot, and you can read about why in Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review. It turns out, a lot of reviewers enjoyed the game too, because at the time of this writing, it's the second-highest rated game in the Final Fantasy series on Metacritic, as noted by video game sales analyst Benji-Sales on X (formerly Twitter). 

Currently sitting at a 93 on Metacritic, which aggregates various reviews into a single Metacritic score, only one other Final Fantasy game has been rated higher: Final Fantasy IX on PlayStation 1. It has a 94 on Metacritic.

There’s only 6 Final Fantasy games that have gone above a 90 Metacritic score.

94- Final Fantasy IX (PS1)
93- Final Fantasy VII Rebirth (PS5)
92- Final Fantasy X (PS2)
92- Final Fantasy XII (PS2)
92- Final Fantasy VI Advance (GBA)
92- Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker (PC) pic.twitter.com/8PvD3wfpvZ
— Andy (@AndSpaceY) February 22, 2024

As you can see above, with a 93 on Metacritic, Final Fantasy VII Rebirth joins a prestigious list of games in the series with a Metacritic score of 90 or higher, as pointed out by AndSpaceY on X. Now, it's important to note that some Final Fantasy games are not rated on Metacritic as the aggregate site was not around when they released. For example, Final Fantasy VI is one of the most beloved entries in the franchise and arguably the best – released in 1994 on the SNES, Metacritic was not around at the time so it does not have a rating on the site. 

Still, Final Fantasy VII Rebirth rating so high is another example of how Square Enix's Final Fantasy VII remake project is landing with both critics and fans alike. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review and then check out our Final Fantasy VII Rebirth cover story hub for exclusive features, videos, and more. After that, check out Game Informer's ranking of every mainline Final Fantasy game. 

Are you picking up Final Fantasy VII Rebirth on day one next week? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

