
  Final Fantasy VII Rebirth: Every Date Cloud Can Go On At The Gold Saucer






            Ahhhh love is in the air. Or maybe it's the Mako...regardless, Final Fantasy VII Rebirth is finally out on PlayStation 5 and that's something we can all celebrate. We had a great time with it – read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review here – and one of the many reasons we enjoyed our 80-plus hours playing is because of the various relationships within the game and Cloud's party. Whether you're Team Clerith or Team Clifa, or maybe Team Cloud XIII (is that a thing?), there's plenty that will leave you satisfied. 

Chief among those things is the special date night that happens within the Gold Saucer. We won't spoil when it happens in the game, and we won't discuss it in detail here, but we do want to let you know that we spent dozens of hours maxing out our relationships with each party member. That means we were able to take part in all possible dates at the Gold Saucer, and we captured each for you to watch below. 

Here's Every Gold Saucer Date In Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review, and then check out our guide of the best side quests in the game. After that, check out our Queen's Blood tips and tricks (and our best deck build), and then read about how New Game Plus works in Final Fantasy VII Rebirth. That's not all, though – we also have a ranking of every minigame and a segway showdown between Final Fantasy VII Rebirth and Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth. 

Who's your number one date option in Final Fantasy VII Rebirth? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

