
  Final Fantasy XVI PC Version In 'Final Stages Of Optimization,' Expect A Demo Before Release






            Final Fantasy XVI exclusively hit PlayStation 5 last June. However, Square Enix had already revealed a PC version of the action game was in development. When I spoke to producer Naoki Yoshida about it in Square Enix's Tokyo, Japan, offices for Game Informer's FFXVI cover story last year, he said players shouldn't expect the PC version anytime soon. 

With FFXVI's first DLC, Echoes of the Fallen, already out, and its second DLC, The Rising Tide, due out this spring, I spoke to Yoshida once more about the PC version. I also talked to him and DLC director Takeo Kujiraoka about The Rising Tide and what players can expect, and you can read Game Informer's exclusive preview here. 

While Yoshida is unable to share when the PC version of FFXVI will be released, he says the team is in the last stages of optimization. 

"In terms of where we are in development currently, we're trying to figure out the final stages of optimization right now," Yoshida tells me through a translator. "When we can release the PC version might be dependent on that – the system requirements and specifications for PC that players will need, so we're trying to figure that out. Naturally, [the PC specifications] are looking to be somewhat high."

He says players can rest assured, though, that development on the PC version of FFXVI is going smoothly, but, "In terms of when it's going to come out or when we can announce it, I'd like to ask for more time on that." 

Yoshida tells me before FFXVI releases on PC, the team will do its best to announce the best specifications and requirements ahead of time so players can determine if the game will run on their PCs. 

"And to do that, we're looking to release a demo for the PC version as well," he adds. "Again, we can't really talk about too much in terms of details of when it's going to come out – I think in a little bit more time we'll be in a better place to announce things. But one thing's for sure: It won't be too distant in the future; it won't be a year, it won't be two years, it will probably be shorter than that, so stay tuned." 

For plenty more about the game, head to Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI coverage hub for exclusive behind-the-scenes features, video interviews, and more. Read Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI review after that.  

Are you going to play Final Fantasy XVI on PC? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XVI

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

June 22, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

