
  First Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater Gameplay Revealed In New Trailer






            Today's Xbox Partner Preview brought us a new look at Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, the remake announced earlier this year. In the trailer, we get a first look at the game's use of Unreal Engine 5 alongside some quick snippets of tactical espionage action.

While what's shown is definitely gameplay, it doesn't appear to be final as the trailer calls it the "first in-engine look." Plus, the gameplay is watermarked with a "pre-alpha footage" tag.

Check out the Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater trailer for yourself below: 

As you can see in the trailer above, we see Big Boss sneaking through jungles, over wooden bridges, through World War 2-esque trenches, and more. There's nothing pointing toward the game's story in this trailer but it does make one thing clear: this remake is going to be beautiful if today's showing is any indication. And the gameplay looks solid and intact – exactly what you'd imagine a 2023 remake of this 2004 classic would look like. 

Revealed back in May, coincidentally during a PlayStation Showcase, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater is a from-the-ground-up remake of the third Metal Gear Solid game originally released in 2004. Like the original, this remake is a 1960s-era prequel to the Metal Gear series that tells the origin story of Big Boss. As such, it serves as a foundational narrative to the wider Metal Gear universe. 

Here are a few screenshots from today's showing: 

For more Metal Gear, check out Game Informer's Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Vol. 1 PlayStation 5 New Gameplay Today. 

Are you excited for Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

