
  Flint: Treasure Of Oblivion Is A Turn-Based Tactical RPG Set In A World Of Piracy






            Publisher Microids and newcomer developer Savage Level have revealed Flint: Treasure of Oblivion, a turn-based tactical RPG set in a world of piracy. This swashbuckling debut from Savage Level is due out in Q4 of this year on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC, and if today's debut trailer is any indication, it looks like a game worth keeping a spyglass on. 

Savage Level describes Flint as a double-A game that takes inspiration from one of piracy's most famed fictional stories: Treasure Island.

"Prepare to weigh anchor alongside Captain Flint, his trusty first mate Billy Bones, and their crew of seasoned sea dogs as they set sail in search of a legendary treasure promisin' freedom and fortune," a press release reads. "With a yarn spun in the traditional style of comic strips, Flint: Treasure of Oblivion invites ye to dive headfirst into a historically accurate pirate adventure spiced up with a dash of fantasy." 

Check out the Flint: Treasure of Oblivion reveal trailer for yourself below: 

Savage Level says the game's turn-based combat mechanics are as tricky as navigating through a storm; picking the right crew for the job will matter all the more because of it. Each crew member brings their own unique skills to the table, and players will need to adapt on the fly to take down foes and more. Players will use cards to trigger skills and attributes all while influencing the fight with key dice throws. 

The team describes the game's narrative as similar to that of a comic book, with speech bubbles, onomatopoeia, and comic strips. 

"Discover a magnificent world, from the French city of Saint-Malo to the exotic landscapes of Central America," a press release reads. Plus, diverse environments include cities, camps, jungles, and caves, all built in Unreal Engine 5. Players can don historically accurate costumes and weapons, too. 

Here are some additional Flint: Treasure of Oblivion screenshots: 

Flint: Treasure of Oblivion hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC in Q4 of 2024. 

Are you going to check out Flint: Treasure of Oblivion later this year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Flint: Treasure of Oblivion

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

