
  Former Halo, Control Dev Opens Anchor Point Studios For NetEase Games






            Paul Ehreth, a former Halo and Control developer, has opened Anchor Point Studios, a new studio within NetEase Games. 

The team is aiming to create "immersive and engaging action-adventure games that offer social and multiplayer experiences," according to a press release. Ehreth, who has more than 20 years of experience as a game director and designer on console and PC games, is joined by a team of industry veterans with experience from Ghost of Tsushima, Red Dead Redemption 2, The Division, and more. 

“We’re so excited to officially drop our anchor in Barcelona, the hometown of my great-grandparents, and start building a strong team for our journey of exploration together with NetEase Games," Ehreth writes in the press release. "Our studio’s motto is ‘Per Aspera, Ad Astra’ (‘through hardships, to the stars’) because we want to build an adventure that will stay fresh and provide a unique experience that will surprise and delight people each time they play, and I want us to acknowledge the challenges we are setting out to face. We're grateful to NetEase Games for giving us the creative freedom and resources to build this interconnected world that will expand beyond games and reach into other mediums as well.” 

Hello world! Anchor Point Studios is founded by industry veterans with a passion for creating immersive and engaging action-adventure games that offer rich social and multiplayer experiences #AnchorPointStudios #Newadventure pic.twitter.com/QMYTd5o79A
— Anchor Point Studios (@AnchorPoint_Inc) April 26, 2023

Anchor Point Studios plans to develop action-adventure games for console and PC that "push the boundaries of entertainment and bring elements of surprise into the gameplay."

The studio is based in Barcelona, Spain, but the team will be hiring up to 100 employees across Europe and North America, "seeking developers, technical artists, and designers to work in its offices, remotely, or in a hybrid capacity." 

There's no word on when we can expect to see or hear about the studio's first game. 

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

