
  Fornite Had Its Biggest Day Ever With 44 Million Players Thanks To Throwback OG Season






            Epic Games launched Fortnite Battle Royale in 2017 and if you followed the game back then, you likely know that every other week, there was news that Fortnite had its biggest day ever in terms of player count and other impressive metrics. Now, more than six years later, Fortnite has had its biggest day ever again, bringing in 44.7 million players and 102 million hours of play on Saturday, November 4. 

Epic Games tweeted this record over the weekend, calling it the biggest day in Fortnite's history before thanking Fortnite and OG players.

Way to start things off with a big bang 💥

We're blown away by the response to #FortniteOG. Yesterday was the biggest day in Fortnite’s history with over 44.7 MILLION players jumping in and 102 MILLION hours of play.

To all Fortnite players, OG and new, THANK YOU!
— Fortnite (@FortniteGame) November 5, 2023

As for why, Epic doesn't list a specific reason but it's pretty clear it's because of the new season itself. Dubbed Season OG, a short one-month-long season of Fortnite brings players back to the Chapter 1 map for some throwback battle royale nostalgia. Plus, near-weekly updates will take players on a journey from Chapter 1: Season 5 all the way to Chapter 1: Season X. 

Check out Game Informer's breakdown of everything you need to know about Fortnite's Season OG. After that, check out the first official throwback teaser Epic released and then watch this nostalgic Tilted Towers video. 

Have you been playing Season OG? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

