
  Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 Begins Today With New Skins, Locations, Weapons, And More






            Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 has arrived. Dubbed "Myths & Mortals," the latest season of Epic Games popular battle royale is themed around Greek mythology and its various gods and goddesses. As today marks the start of a new season (after the usual downtime, of course), there's a new battle pass to earn and it features plenty of great skins. Plus, the new season introduces several new points of interest to visit, weapons to use, and more. 

Everything You Need To Know About Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2

Somebody (it was us, the players) opened Pandora's Box on the Fortnite Battle Royale Island, bringing Olympus and its heroic gods and goddesses to the fight. Olympian legends like the god of the underworld, Hades, and the god of thunder, Zeus, now rule the island with rage. 

You can get a glimpse of Hades, Zeus, and other battle pass skins, including Korra from The Legend of Zorra animated series, in the image below: 

New Locations

At Mount Olympus, the home of Zeus, you'll always feel like you're being watched by the massive Zeus monument that graces this mountain POI, according to Epic Games. 

To get to the Underworld, players will need to cross the river at Grim Gate, where the three-headed Cerberus guard dog awaits. Venture to the west of the island to confront this legendary foe. 

The Underworld is the home of Hades. Despite its flowing streams, Epic Games says the land of this city is almost completely dried up. 

Another location is the Brawler's Battleground arena, south of Mount Olympus. It's where Ares always welcomes an admirable foe – and speaking of Ares, this god is the Outfit of the April 2024 Crew Pack. 

New Weapons

The new Thunderbolt of Zeus allows players to rise into the air and hurl lightning bolts at enemies below. However, it only has a maximum of three charges with a cooldown between one. Pick up this Mythic power across the island or by defeating Zeus himself. 

The Gatekeeper Shotgun can quickly fire three aggressive rounds. It's a shotgun best at short range. It can be found across the island or as a Mythic variant by defeating Cerberus. 

The Harbinger SMG is unforgiving and relentless, according to Epic Games. "Highly accurate when first shot, it has dramatically increased recoil and bloom as more bullets are fired," a press release reads. "But that doesn't stop it from going all out. Find regular versions across the island or the Mythic version from defeating Hades." It's the weapon Zeus is holding in the image at the top of this story. 

The Huntress DMR is a new rifle from Artemis, the goddess of the moonlit hunt. It's apparently great against the gods on the island, Epic Games says. And it can be found around the island or as a Mythic version by hunting down Zeus. 

The Warforged Assault Rifle is the favorite of Ares. Described as powerful yet unruly, this assault rifle has high damage, a high rate of fire, and a strong recoil. It can be found across the island or as a Mythic variant by defeating Ares. 

The Wings of Icarus are this season's mobility item. With it, you can soar through the skies and divebomb into your foes below. However, fly too long, and your wings will burn up – taking too much damage might lead to a crash landing. You can find this Mythic pick-up scattered around the island. 

And as a tease, Epic Games says another Olympian power – the Chains of Hades – "will pull you in later this Season." 

Here are the weapons from Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 1 returning in Season 2: 

Hammer Pump Shotgun
Frenzy Auto Shotgun
Nemesis AR
Thunder Burst SMG
Reaper Sniper Rifle
Ranger Pistol
In terms of new weapon mods, there's the Thermal Scope, which can be attached to any scoped weapon for a thermal view that can be toggled on and off, and the Speedgrip, which increases your movement speed while aiming. You can find these mods at Mod Benches, just like last season, which are in new Weapon Bunkers scattered around the map that open up throughout each match. 

New Battle Pass

Here are the skins you can expect: 

Cerberus (unlocked immediately)
Aphrodite
Poseidon
Medusa
Zeus
Artemis
Hades
Korra
You have until May 24, 2024, at 2 a.m. ET to complete this battle pass. 

Ranked Zero Build

"We've heard your feedback about longer queue times at the upper Zero Build ranks," the press release reads. "To address this, we're doing a test! The NA-East and NA-West matchmaking regions will route to the NA-Central matchmaking region for Ranked Zero Build. This is so that Ranked Zero Build players in North America will be up against a wider pool of players, which means shorter queue times. The results of this test will determine if this is a long-term solution."

And that's everything you need to know about Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 – Myths & Mortals. 

Are you excited for the new season? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

