
  Fortnite Introduces Family-Friendly Lego Islands With 'Raft Survival' And 'Obby Fun'






            Epic Games and Lego unveiled Lego Fortnite, a brick-based survival game with crafting, combat, and more, back in December. Now, the companies have unveiled a new way to experience Lego in Fortnite: Lego Islands. Available today, Lego Islands is a family-friendly, all-ages play experience that sits alongside (and separate) from Lego Fortnite, and it's kicking off with two islands. 

The first is Lego Raft Survival. Created in Unreal Editor for Fortnite, Raft Survival "combines frenetic multiplayer problem solving with the classic Lego Pirates theme, as the infamous Blackbeard challenges players and their friends to stay afloat on a raft in unfriendly waters," a press release reads. Players must survive on their raft against cannon balls shot from Blackbeard's Barracuda ship, all while collecting wood and treasures as resources and building more rafts. 

Here's a look at Lego Raft Survival: 

The second island available starting today is Lego Obby Fun. Epic Games calls it the first official Lego-themed obstacle course in Fortnite, stating it "offers a Lego-inspired take on climbing and problem solving through brick-built platforms designed by actual Lego designers and packed with hot dogs, pizzas, unicorns, and much more."

Players are spawned randomly on a section of a course inspired by popular Lego themes, like Lego Friends, Lego City, Lego Ninjago, and Lego DreamZzz, and "the experience offers a different challenge each time to put their skills to the test, either solo or with friends." 

Here's a look at Lego Obby Fun: 

Epic Games says the Lego Fortnite journey, which began with Chapter 5 of Fortnite alongside Rocket Racing and Fortnite Festival, is just the beginning, with new world building, gameplay features, and Lego Style Outfits arriving in updates throughout the year. 

Both Lego Raft Survival and Lego Obby Fun are now live in Fortnite. 

For more, read about how Lady Gaga is now available in Fortnite, and then check out this partnership between Epic Games and Disney to bring the latter to Fortnite in a big way.  

Are you going to check out these Lego Islands? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

