
  Fortnite Chapter 4: Season OG Brings The Nostalgia With Throwback Tilted Towers Trailer






            Fortnite Chapter 4: Season 4 has been one of the best seasons for Epic Games' battle royale in a while, bringing vampires, heists, and more to the game. But it ends this week, with Epic bringing players back to the Chapter 1 map for the next season of Chapter 4. Thanks to a new trailer released today, we know this throwback season is called Season OG, is a part of Chapter 4, and will be bringing with it a heavy dose of nostalgia. 

That's showcased best in today's trailer, which highlights the throwback drop spot of Tilted Towers while Juice WRLD's "Lucid Dreams" plays. Tilted Towers looks as good as we remember it, and you can check it out in the Fortnite Chapter 4: Season OG – Return to Tilted Towers gameplay trailer for yourself below: 

Fortnite Chapter 4: Season OG, this chapter's fifth chapter, goes live tomorrow on November 3. 

For more about the current chapter, read our summary of everything you need to know about Fortnite Chapter 4: Season 4, and then read about how you can relive the events of Alan Wake in Fortnite ahead of Alan Wake 2, which is out today. After that, check out this story about Alan Wake, Michael Myers, and Jack Skellington joining the battle royale. 

Are you excited for this throwback season of Fortnite? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

