
  Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 Promises Plenty Of Greek Mythological Action






            Fortnite: Chapter 5 was a huge launch for the long-running battle royale developed by Epic Games. Not only did it bring a mafia-themed season to the battle royale aspect of Fortnite, with a new battle pass too, but it introduced three new ways to play the game: Fortnite Festival, a Rock Band-like experience developed by Harmonix, Lego Fortnite, a Minecraft-like survival experience, and Rocket Racing, a racing game developed by Rocket League studio Psyonix.

As Season 1 of Chapter 5 reaches its closing hours, Epic Games has revealed the next season is called Myths & Mortals, promising a Greek Mythology-themed season with skins of gods and goddesses and more. 

Prepare thyselves, mere mortals!

The gods have updated their celestial loading screen ✨ pic.twitter.com/0d91p34hCu
— Fortnite (@FortniteGame) March 7, 2024

Unfortunately, the above announcement and accompanying image is all we have so far of Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2, but there's plenty to discover in this teaser alone. It seems like the there's a comedic Poseidon skin on the left, and a Hades skin in the center alongside perhaps Zeus and Athena up front. There appear to be some flying Green Goblin-esque gliders at play, too, with new point-of-interest locations themed after these Greek gods and goddesses in the background.

Only time will tell, but fortunately, we don't have to wait too long because Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 – Myths & Mortals begins tomorrow, March 8. 

In the meantime, check out the latest two Lego Islands to hit Fortnite, and then read about how Lady Gaga joined the fun last month. After that, read about how Disney and Epic Games are partnering up to create a games and entertainment universe connected to Fortnite. 

Are you excited for Fortnite Chapter 5: Season 2 – Myths & Mortals? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

