
  Fortnite Adds New Setting To Hide 'Confrontational Emotes' 






            Epic Games has revealed a new setting for Fortnite that allows players to hide emotes the company considers "confrontational." This doesn't outright ban these emotes from the game and those with them can still use them, but if someone has this new setting turned off, they won't see others use them. 

Called "See Confrontational Emotes," players can choose whether they want to see emotes like "Laugh It Up," "Take the L," "Whipcrack," and "Make It Plantain" from anyone, from friends in a party, or never. Epic says players who have these emotes hidden with this new setting will see a player using the emote standing still, with no emote sound. 

This new setting can be found under "Social Privacy" in the Fortnite settings and it defaults to only show these confrontational emotes from friends in your party. Epic stresses that this setting does not change a player's ability to use any emotes. It is now live in-game. 

For more about Fortnite, check out these Avatar: The Last Airbender skins now available in the game, and then read about how Fortnite's next Star Wars crossover will span Lego, Fortnite Festival, and Battle Royale. After that, read about how Billie Eilish is headlining Fortnite Festival Season 3. 

How do you feel about this new emote setting? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

