
  Geoff Keighley Says 'People Are Setting Themselves Up For Failure' When Asked About Kingdom Hearts IV At SGF






            This year's Summer Game Fest showcase is happening this week, on Friday, June 7, at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and with more than 55 studios and publishers set to be featured at the event (including Play Days this weekend) this year, fans have been speculating on what they might see. That includes Kingdom Hearts fans, who have been hoping to see something related to Kingdom Hearts IV at SGF this year, given it's been more than two years since its reveal. 

However, SGF host and creator Geoff Keighley thinks Kingdom Hearts fans should lower their expectations for the show. 

"People keep asking about Kingdom Hearts, I don't know why," Keighley says during a recent stream where he answered questions about SGF. "I think it's because we did [Final Fantasy VII Rebirth] last year or something like that. But yeah, people are setting themselves up for failure but you guys can keep hoping." 

Here's a clip of it, too: 

😭 pic.twitter.com/CPoIy0zrOh
— xenosaga (@xenosaga7) June 3, 2024

Now, Keighley could be playing coy, especially with the "but you guys can keep hoping" part at the end, but it's more likely that he's trying to nicely let Kingdom Hearts fans know that if they expect to see Kingdom Hearts IV during SGF, they might be disappointed. 

In the meantime, watch the Kingdom Hearts IV reveal trailer, and then read Game Informer's exclusive interview with Tetsuya Nomura about Kingdom Hearts IV, the series' future with Final Fantasy, and more. 

Do you think we'll hear about Kingdom Hearts IV this upcoming weekend? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Kingdom Hearts IV

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

