
  Get Your First Look At Dragon Age: The Veilguard's Real-Time Action Combat In First Gameplay Trailer






            Developer BioWare has released the first official gameplay trailer for its upcoming RPG, Dragon Age: The Veilguard. Featuring more than 20 minutes of gameplay, this is the first look at the game's action combat, the magical city of Minrathous, the player-character Rook, some of the companions who are joining Rook's journey, how dialogue choices work, and more. 

In the gameplay trailer, which begins in Minrathous, we see returning fan favorites Varric Tethras and Lace Harding alongside newcomer companion Neve Gallus, a private detective mage, and Rook. Solas, the once-ally mage turned foe at the end of Dragon Age: Inquisition's Trespasser DLC, is attempting to destroy the Veil, a barrier between the magical Fade and the continent of Thedas. Our team, seemingly not quite the titular Veilguard just yet, is attempting to stop him. 

Check it out for yourself in the official gameplay trailer for Dragon Age: The Veilguard below:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

At just 20 minutes, this gameplay reveal is a tease of what's to come in the final game when it hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC this fall. However, Dragon Age: The Veilguard is Game Informer's next cover story, and in the latest issue, you can get an exclusive in-depth look at what happens next in the game alongside new details about the extensive character creator, the game's main hub location, the action combat, and so much more.

Be sure to subscribe here to ensure our Dragon Age: The Veilguard issue reaches your mailbox. And keep an eye on Game Informer's Dragon Age: The Veilguard coverage hub for upcoming articles about the game with exclusive details, interviews, video features, and more. 

For more about the game, check out this recent Dragon Age: The Veilguard trailer that introduces the game's cast, and then read about how the name changed from Dreadwolf to The Veilguard. 

What do you think of this gameplay reveal for Dragon Age: The Veilguard? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

