
  Get A New Look At Amazon's Fallout TV Series, Now Premiering One Day Early, In First Official Trailer






            Amazon Studios has released the first official trailer for its upcoming Fallout TV series and unsurprisingly, it features power armor, a post-apocalyptic Los Angeles, Vault Dwellers, and plenty more. And it looks great. Today's trailer is just a three-minute tease of what awaits in the full series, which premiers next month on April 11 (originally set to premiere April 12, its premiere has been moved up one day), exclusively on Amazon Prime Video. 

The trailer begins with a character explaining the importance of vaults before the world falls to nuclear destruction. Fast forward 200 years and Vault Dwellers emerge, ready to discover what awaits in the vast Californian wasteland. We get new looks at Ella Purnell's Jean, the primary Vault Dweller protagonist, Walton Goggins' Ghoul, Kyle MacLachlan's mysterious character, Aaron Clifton Moten's Maximus, who is a member of the Brotherhood of Steel, and more. 

Check it out for yourself below in the Fallout TV series live-action trailer: 

"Based on one of the greatest video game series of all time, Fallout is the story of haves and have-nots in a world in which there's almost nothing left to have," a press release reads. "200 years after the apocalypse, the gentle denizens of luxury fallout shelters are forced to return to the irradiated hellscape their ancestors left behind – and are shocked to discover an incredibly complex, gleefully weird, and highly violent universe waiting for them." 

Amazon Studios, which is behind series like The Boys and Invincible, is producing Fallout alongside Kilter Films and executive producers Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy. Nolan directed the first three episodes of Fallout. 

Fallout premieres on Amazon Prime Video on April 11. 

For more, check out the teaser trailer for Fallout released back in December. After that, read Game Informer's reviews of Fallout 4 and Fallout 76. 

What do you think of this trailer? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

