
  Get Another Look At Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days' Texan Zombie Action In New Gameplay Teaser






            Developer PikPok has released a new gameplay teaser for its 1980s zombie game, Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days, and though the teaser is quick, it offers another glimpse at the Texan undead action. Revealed during today's PC Gaming Show, Our Darkest Days is an upcoming entry in the PC and mobile Into The Dead franchise. In Darkest Days, players are brought to the height of a zombie outbreak during the sweltering summer of 1980 Texas. 

It's a side-scrolling shelter survival game in which players attempt to escape Walton City before it's completely overrun. To survive, players must scavenge, craft, fight, and plan their next moves. 

Check it out for yourself in the Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days gameplay teaser below: 

"Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days' PC Gaming Show teaser showcases three cornerstones of the game: planning, adapting, and surviving," a press release reads. "Scavenge various locations for valuable materials, carefully avoiding zombies in heavily infected areas. Balance the needs and well-being of each survivor, and upgrade meager shelters with fortifications and amenities to make it through the night before selecting new locations to explore the following day." 

Our Darkest Days features difficult in-game decisions, survivor permadeath, and of course, plenty of zombies.

Here are some additional screenshots of the game: 

It's due out on PC via Steam Early Access in 2025, but a demo is coming to Steam this October. 

Will you be checking out the demo for Into The Dead: Our Darkest Days this October? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Into The Dead

Platform:

PC

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

