
  Ghostrunner 2 DLC Plans Revealed, Includes New Game Mode And Cosmetic Packs






            Developer One More Level and publisher 505 Games have pulled back the DLC curtain plans for its upcoming first-person parkour-action game, Ghostrunner 2, ahead of its release next week. As previously announced, all Brutal Edition owners of Ghostrunner 2 will get the Season Pass, which includes all of the DLC announced today. Otherwise, the Season Pass will cost $19.99.

As for what to expect, One More Level has revealed four cosmetic packs and a new way to play the game called Endless Moto Mode. Given that we know Ghostrunner 2 features a motorbike for protagonist Jack to ride, we're guessing this new mode has something to do with that. In each cosmetic pack, players will receive three sword skins, three hand skins, and one motorcycle skin. The first one – Ice Pack – goes live in-game on December 7. 

Check out the Ghostrunner 2 Season Pass trailer for yourself below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Sometime in February, the Dragon Pack will go live followed by the Heat Pack in June of next year. The Endless Moto Mode is due out sometime in September of 2024, with the Anniversary Pack following it in October. 

Buying the Brutal Edition of Ghostrunner 2 gets you all of this DLC and 48-hours of early access to the game, meaning you can jump in starting October 24 ahead of the game's standard October 26 release date. 

For more, check out the Ghostrunner 2 soundtrack list (and listen to a full song from it right now), and then watch this gameplay trailer from earlier this year.

Are you jumping into Ghostrunner 2 next week? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Ghostrunner 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 26, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

