
  God of War Ragnarök's Valhalla DLC Has An Endgame Challenge So Hard Nobody On The Dev Team Has Completed It






            God of War  Ragnarök's Valhalla DLC is out now on PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4, less than a week after it was revealed at The Game Awards 2023. It features a good bit of story content that acts as an epilogue to the events of Ragnarok, and it's packaged within a roguelite structure, meaning it's heavy on combat. Apparently, there's an endgame challenge in Valhalla so difficult that nobody on the dev team could complete it on the DLC's "Show Me Mastery" difficulty, according to Valhalla's director Mihir Sheth. 

"I am so, so curious to see how quickly players will humble us...as they often do...but maybe this time we've beaten them?" Sheth writes on Twitter, as first reported by Wccftech. 

There is an endgame challenge in #GodOfWarRagnarokValhalla that no one on the dev team has completed on the hardest difficulty 'Show Me Mastery'.

I am so, so curious to see how quickly players will humble us.. as they often do... but maybe this time we've beaten them? 👀
— Mihir Sheth (@youtheremehere) December 12, 2023

God of War  Ragnarök, the sequel to 2018's God of War reboot, hit PS5 and PS4 more than a year ago – read Game Informer's review to find out why it was one of our favorite games of 2022. While many fans expected some kind of follow-up to the ending of  Ragnarök, be it a sequel down the road or an expansion, it's safe to say nobody had roguelite DLC on their bingo cards. But a roguelite DLC called Valhalla is exactly what developer Santa Monica Studios announced last week. Now, God of War Ragnarok's Valhalla DLC is out and apparently has the hardest challenge in the entire series. 

You can watch us tackle the first hour of  God of War Ragnarök: Valhalla in this episode of Game Informer Live. 

Are you playing God of War Ragnarok's Valhalla DLC? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

God of War Ragnarök

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

November 9, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

