
  Grand Theft Auto VI: PS5 And Xbox Series X/S Release Confirmed For 2025, No Mention Of PC






            Developer Rockstar Games announced last week that it was going to release the first trailer for Grand Theft Auto VI on Tuesday, December 5. However, the studio released the trailer a day earlier – watch the official GTA VI reveal trailer here – after it leaked online. The trailer confirmed GTA VI will be released in 2025 and now, thanks to a new press release from Rockstar parent company, Take-Two Interactive Software, we know it's coming to PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. 

Curiously, the press release only mentions those two platforms, leaving out PC. Here's what it says: 

"Rockstar Games, a publishing label of Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc., is proud to announce that Grand Theft Auto VI is coming to PlayStation 5 computer entertainment systems and Xbox Series X/S games and entertainment systems in 2025." 

Despite the popularity of Grand Theft Auto V on PC, it seems like GTA VI won't be launching on PC on day one. Of course, this doesn't mean the game won't eventually make its way to PC; GTA V eventually got there (albeit about a year and a half later). And Red Dead Redemption II didn't launch on PC either. 

Game Informer has reached out to Rockstar Games to ask if a PC version of GTA VI is planned and, if there is one, when it will be released, and will update this story if more is learned. 

In the meantime, read about the first official Grand Theft Auto VI trailer here, and then check out some screenshots from the trailer below: 

How do you feel about Grand Theft Auto VI skipping PC at launch? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Grand Theft Auto VI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

