
  Grand Theft Auto VI Revealed With First Official Trailer Alongside 2025 Release Year






            We learned last week that Rockstar Games was going to release the first official trailer for Grand Theft Auto VI this week. It was set to release on Tuesday, December 5, at 9 a.m. E.T., but after leaking online today, the team released the trailer early.

In this first trailer for Grand Theft Auto VI, the highly anticipated sequel to Grand Theft Auto V more than 10 years in the making, we get a glimpse at our dual protagonists, the setting of Vice City, and more alongside a 2025 release year. A press release from Rockstar Games says the game will launch on PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in 2025, with no mention of PC. 

Check out the official Grand Theft Auto VI trailer for yourself below: 

As you can see from the trailer above, Grand Theft Auto is back and looking better than ever. The trailer begins with our first look at Lucia, one of the two main protagonists of Grand Theft Auto VI. She's seemingly incarcerated in the fictional, Miami-inspired Vice City, first seen in 2002's Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, (although we're not in the 1980s anymore). We also get a look at the surrounding scenery, including beaches, a Florida Everglades-inspired area, neon-lit highways, clubs, and more. Oh, and there are giant alligators, too – typical Florida stuff.

Here are some additional Grand Theft Auto VI screenshots:

There are hints at an in-world social media system akin to YouTube or TikTok, outdoorsy activities like mudding, car shows, and plenty of crime.

We also get a look at the second protagonist of the game, although they remain unnamed. It seems Lucia and this male protagonist are involved romantically in some way, with Lucia saying in the trailer, "The only way we're going to get through this is by sticking together, being a team. Trust?" We then see the duo robbing a store of sorts before the trailer flashes the official Grand Theft Auto VI logo alongside 2025, indicating we're still a ways off from playing the game. 

Editor's Note: This article has been updated to include additional information regarding release platforms.

What do you think of this first Grand Theft Auto VI trailer? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Grand Theft Auto VI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

