
  Guardians Of The Galaxy Director James Gunn To Direct DCU's 'Superman: Legacy'






            Earlier this year, James Gunn (Guardians of the Galaxy, Peacemaker) and Peter Safran (Aquaman producer), both co-CEOs of DC Studios, revealed the lineup for the DC cinematic universe's first chapter. Dubbed "Gods and Monsters," the first chapter of the DCU is set to feature at least 10 movie and TV projects. One of those projects is a new Superman movie called "Superman: Legacy."

At the time of the movie's announcement, it was rumored that Gunn was going to direct it but that wasn't confirmed. However, Safran said he personally hoped Gunn would direct it. Yesterday, Gunn confirmed on Twitter that he will, in fact, direct "Superman: Legacy" with a heartfelt post. 

"Yes, I'm directing Superman: Legacy to be released on July 11, 2025," Gunn writes in a tweet. "My brother Matt told me when he saw the release date he started to cry. I asked him why. He said, 'Dude, it's Dad's birthday.' I hadn't realized. I lost my Dad almost three years ago. He was my best friend. He didn't understand me as a kid, but he supported my love of comics and my love of film and I wouldn't be making this movie now without him. 

It has been a long road to this point. I was offered Superman years ago – I initially said no because I didn't have a way in that felt unique and fun and emotional that gave Superman the dignity he deserved. Then a bit less than a year ago I saw a way in, in many ways centering around Superman's heritage – both how his aristocratic Kryptonian parents and his Kansas farmer parents inform who he is and the choices he makes. 

"So I chose to finally take on writing the script. But I was hesitant to direct, despite the constant pestering by Peter Safran and others to commit (sorry, Peter). Just because I write something doesn't mean I feel it in my bones, visually and emotionally, enough to spend over two years directing it, especially not something of this magnitude. 

But the long and the short of it is, I love this script, and I'm incredibly excited as we begin this journey. #UpUpandAway"

Yes, I’m directing Superman: Legacy to be released on July 11, 2025. My brother Matt told me when he saw the release date he started to cry. I asked him why. He said, “Dude, it’s Dad’s birthday.” I hadn’t realized. pic.twitter.com/ohQNV8nI4g
— James Gunn (@JamesGunn) March 15, 2023

"Superman: Legacy" is set to hit theaters on July 11, 2025 and according to Safran, it is "the start of the DCU." The co-CEO also revealed that while this is the formal start of the DCU, "Superman: Legacy" will not be an origin story. Safran says it will instead focus on Superman balancing his Kryptonian heritage with his human upbringing, before harkening to a decades-old theme of the hero: "He is the embodiment of truth, justice, and the American way. He is kindness in a world that thinks kindness is old-fashioned." 

At the time of the announcement of "Superman: Legacy," it was revealed that a seperate Superman movie being produced by JJ Abrams and written by Te-Nehisi Coates is still in development, but it will exist outside the DCU, much like how Matt Reeves' "The Batman" franchise starring Robert Pattinson as the Caped Crusader will as well. 

For a full breakdown of the DCU's first slate of movie and TV projects, head to our list here. For more superhero action, check out the latest Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League gameplay trailer that confirms the game will have a battle pass and free post-launch DLC. 

Are you excited for Superman: Legacy? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

