
  Hades Hits iOS Via Netflix Later This Month With 60 FPS Gameplay, Offline Play, And More






            Hades, the critically acclaimed roguelite from developer Supergiant Games, is coming to Netflix later this month. It will be available to all subscribers on iOS devices starting March 19, but you can pre-register right now.

While Netflix might sound like an odd fit for a game that's available on PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC, Netflix says this mobile version of Hades features 60 FPS gameplay, redesigned menus and interfaces, fully customizable on-screen controls, cloud saves, achievements, and offline play. 

Check out a new trailer for Hades on Netflix for yourself below: 

We really enjoyed Hades here at Game Informer, giving it an 8.5 out of 10 in our review for being "a beautiful and thoughtful twist on Greek mythology, flipping these old stories on their head and transforming them into commentaries on modern relationships," amongst other things like its high-octane action gameplay. 

Hades coming to Netflix might be the perfect excuse to replay the game ahead of the Early Access debut of its sequel, Hades II, which is set to begin this year. 

Hades joins a growing list of great games available now or soon on Netflix, like Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy – The Definitive Edition, Katana Zero, Death's Door, and Braid: Anniversary Edition. 

Are you going to check out Hades on Netflix later this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Hades

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS

Release Date:

September 17, 2020 (Switch, PC), August 13, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One), March 19, 2024 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

