
  HBO's The Last Of Us Season 2 Has Found Its Manny, Mel, Nora, And Owen






            HBO's The Last of Us Season 2 has found its Manny, Mel, Nora, and Owen, all key characters in the story that unfolds in The Last of Us Part II. Announced today, Danny Ramirez (The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, Top Gun: Maverick) will play Manny, Ariela Barer (Runaways) as Mel, Tati Gabrielle (Chilling Adventures of Sabrina) as Nora, and Spencer Lord (Riverdale) as Owen. 

These four actors will join Bella Ramsey and Pedro Pascal, who are returning as Ellie and Joel respectively, alongside new additions like Kaitlyn Dever as Abby, Isabela Merced as Dina, and Young Mazino as Jesse. 

HBO describes Manny as "a loyal soldier whose sunny outlook belies the pain of old wounds and a fear that he will fail his friends when they need him most," and Mel as "a young doctor whose commitment to having lives is challenged by the realities of war and tribalism," according to a Variety report. 

The streaming service describes Nora as "a military medic struggling to come to terms with the sins of her past," and Owen as "a gentle soul trapped in a warrior's body, condemned to fight an enemy he refuses to hate." 

We won't spoil these characters' roles in The Last of Us Part II, which is likely to match their roles in HBO's The Last of Us Season 2, but if you know you know. 

Fans of Naughty Dog's Last of Us series on PlayStation eagerly await the second season of HBO's The Last of Us. The first season debuted in January of last year, covering the events of the first game and its Left Behind DLC. HBO quickly confirmed the show would be getting a second season, which is set to premiere next year.

We loved the first season and can't wait to see how it adapts The Last of Us Part II, which got the remaster in January. It seems we aren't alone either – The Last of Us' premiere was HBO's second-largest debut since 2010, and viewers stuck around for the entire season. 

The first season of The Last of Us has already won eight Emmy awards. For more, read Game Informer's review of The Last of Us and then read Game Informer's review of The Last of Us Part II. 

What do you think of these casting choices? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part II Remastered 

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

