
  HBO's The Last Of Us Has Already Won Eight Emmy Awards






            The 75th Emmy Awards will be broadcast live on January 15, and that's where a majority of the awards winners will be announced. However, the Creative Arts Emmy awards, a subset of of the Emmys that recognizes technical achievements, guest appearances, and more, have already been doled out, and HBO's The Last of Us picked up eight wins, as reported by Deadline. In total, the show, its crew, and actors have picked up 24 nominations. 

Here are the eight Creative Arts Emmys The Last of Us has already won: 

Outstanding special visual effects in a season or movie
Outstanding main title design
Outstanding sound editing for a comedy or drama series (one hour) and animation 
Outstanding sound mixing for a comedy or drama series (one hour)
Outstanding picture editing for a drama series 
Outstanding guest actress in a drama series – Storm Reid as Riley Abel
Outstanding guest actor in a drama series – Nick Offerman as Bill

The Last of Us' Joel and Ellie – Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey, respectively – are still up for Emmy awards. Pascal has been nominated for "Outstanding Lead Actor In A Drama Series" and Ramsey "Outstanding Lead Actress In A Drama Series," and we'll find out if they've won when the 75th Emmy Awards air next week on January 15. 

The Last of Us began airing on HBO back in January of last year. Its premiere was the streamer's second largest debut since 2010, and its second episode broke records, too, before its third episode – "Long, Long Time" – made all of us cry as we watched the love between Bill and Frank flourish in the apocalypse. "Long, Long Time" is the episode that won Offerman an Emmy this year. 

HBO quickly greenlit a second season of The Last of Us and it's set to premiere in 2025. It will adapt, partly, the second game in the series, The Last of Us Part II, which gives players plenty of time to check out the upcoming The Last of Us Part II Remastered. It hits PlayStation 5 exclusively on January 19. 

For more, read Game Informer's review of The Last of Us and then read Game Informer's review of the The Last of Us Part II. 

[Source: Deadline]

What's your favorite episode of The Last of Us? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part I

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

September 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5), March 28, 2023 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

The Last of Us Part II Remastered 

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

