
  Helldivers 2 Season 2 Launches Next Week With New 'Cutting Edge' Warbond






            Arrowhead Game Studios has revealed in a PlayStation Blog post that Season 2 of Helldivers 2 launches next week with a new "Cutting Edge" Warbond. This new Warbond is packed with "high-voltage vibes," giving players access to new loadout potential with ultra-futuristic armor, guns that spit lightning, stylish capes, emotes, and more. 

Warbond – Cutting Edge goes live next week on March 14 and brings with it a new "Acquisitions" battle pass of things to unlock. However, don't fret if you're still working through the first free and premium Warbonds in Helldivers 2 – Warbonds don't expire. 

Check out the Helldivers 2 Warbond – Cutting Edge trailer for yourself below: 

Within this new Warbond, players will find multiple EX Series armor prototypes. The EX-03 Prototype 3 includes a rubber underlayer for insulation with "wires that operate at a shocking 400,000 volts." The EX-16 Prototype 16 has an electric arc that generates a strong magnetic field. The EX-00 Prototype X is the "end result of several billion Super Credits and 12 years of research into creating 'the Soldier of Tomorrow.'"

In terms of new weapons, expect electricity. The LAS-16 is a laser rifle that fires in short bursts, and it doesn't need reloading either (just watch for overheating). The SG-8P Punisher Plasma is a modified Punisher shotgun that uses plasma rounds, and the ARC-12 Blitzer projects an arc of close-range lightning. Or, you can charge it up to fire powerful bolts good for taking out multiple targets. 

You can also unlock the new G-23 Stun grenade and the LAS-7 Dagger pistol, too. 

Elsewhere in this Warbond, Helldivers will find matching player cards for each cape and three new emotes. 

Cutting Edge rolls out to Destroyer Acquisition panels on March 14. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Helldivers 2 review, and then read about the latest patch that added meteor showers and fire tornadoes to the war. 

Are you excited for Warbond – Cutting Edge in Helldivers 2? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Helldivers 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

February 8, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

