
  Here's Your First Look At Joel And Ellie In Season 2 Of HBO's The Last Of Us






            HBO/Max has released the first look at Pedro Pascal's Joel and Bella Ramsey's Ellie in Season 2 of The Last of Us, and the scenery looks familiar. As Season 2 shoots are underway, images from filming have begun to leak, but today's images are the first official shots from the upcoming season, which is due out next year. 

Pascal's Joel appears to be in the barn where a very important and intense scene between he and Ellie takes place, while Ellie appears to be inside a wintery location, likely somewhere in the game's beginning where snow is abundant. 

Check out the first official look at Season 2 of The Last of Us for yourself below: 

Pascal and Ramsey are obviously returning cast members for the series, and they'll be joined by various newcomers in the show next year. Booksmart's Kaitlyn Dever will play Abby, while Young Mazino joins as Jesse. Manny, Mel, Nora, and Owen will be played by Danny Ramirez (The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, Top Gun: Maverick), Ariela Barer (Runaways), Tati Gabrielle (Chilling Adventures of Sabrina), and Spencer Lord (Riverdale), respectively. 

We won't spoil these characters' roles in The Last of Us Part II, which is likely to match their roles in HBO's The Last of Us Season 2, but if you know, you know. 

Fans of Naughty Dog's Last of Us games eagerly await the second season of HBO's The Last of Us. The first season debuted in January of last year, covering the events of the first game and its Left Behind DLC. HBO quickly confirmed the show would be getting a second season, which is set to premiere next year.

We loved the first season and can't wait to see how it adapts The Last of Us Part II, which got the remaster treatment in January. It seems we aren't alone either – The Last of Us' premiere was HBO's second-largest debut since 2010, and viewers stuck around for the entire season. 

The first season of The Last of Us has already won eight Emmy awards. For more, read Game Informer's review of The Last of Us and then read Game Informer's review of The Last of Us Part II. 

What do you think of Ramsey and Pascal's looks as Ellie and Joel in Season 2? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part II Remastered 

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

