
  Hermen Hulst And Hideaki Nishino Named Dual PlayStation CEOs Following Jim Ryan's Departure






            Sony has appointed Hermen Hulst and Hideaki Nishino as dual CEOs of PlayStation, following Jim Ryan's departure from the company this spring; they will begin June 1. Ryan announced he was leaving PlayStation last year, with Sony Group Corporation COO and CFO Hiroki Totoki stepping in as interim CEO following his departure in March. After that brief stint, PlayStation is tackling the CEO position with two figures, each with different focuses. 

Hulst has been appointed CEO of SIE's Studio Business Group while Nishino has been appointed CEO of SIE's Platform Business Group. Totoki, now through as interim CEO, will serve as a Chairman of SIE in addition to returning to his role as COO and CFO of Sony Group Corporation. Both Nishino and Hulst will report to Totoki. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"Sony Interactive Entertainment is a dynamic and growing business that delivers incredible entertainment experiences through the connection of content and technology," Totoki writes in a press release. "These two leaders will have clear responsibilities and will manage strategic direction to ensure the focus remains on deepening engagement with existing PlayStation users and expanding experiences to new audiences."

Nishino was the senior vice president of PlayStation's Platform Experience Group, "responsible for developing the experiences and technology with PlayStation products and services," including the PlayStation 5, PlayStation VR2, and PlayStation Network. Sony says in his new CEO position, he will continue to be responsible for technology, products, services, and platform experiences. He will also oversee third party publisher and developer relations and commercial operations, including sales and marketing of hardware, services, and peripherals, the press release reads. 

"We will continue to connect players through world-class products, services, and technology," Nishino writes. "We always strive to grow our community even bigger with innovation in every area at Sony Interactive Entertainment. I am honored to be appointed such an important role alongside Hermen. By working more closely together, we will be positioned to build incredible experiences for an ever-expanding audience now and in the future." 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Hulst was the senior vice president and PlayStation Studios head, responsible for "developing content across many devices including PlayStation consoles and PCs, and bringing video game IP to new mediums such as film and television through PlayStation Productions." As CEO, Hulst will be responsible for the development, publishing, and business operations of first party content. 

"I am thrilled to lead the studio business group and continue to build on our success with PlayStation 5, while preparing for the future," he writes in the press release. "The video game industry is one of the largest entertainment industries in the world and has been built on the marriage of content and technology, and I look forward to continuing to push the boundaries of play and entertainment."

Totoki says in a separate blog post that later this month, players will "learn more about the long-term vision for Sony Group and the essential role SIE plays in that vision," hinting that the company might have some kind of event happening in May. He adds, "[Fiscal Year 2024] marks the start of the Mid-Range Plan period for Sony Group in which we will set the course for sustainable growth." 

For more about PlayStation, read Game Informer's Stellar Blade review, and then read Game Informer's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth review. After that, check out this Game Informer interview with former PlayStation boss Jack Tretton about acquisitions, live service games, E3, and more. 

What do you think about PlayStation's dual CEO approach? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

November 12, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

