
  Hi-Fi Rush Gets Final Patch To Fix Minor Issues, Reconfirms Limited Physical Edition






            Hi-Fi Rush is getting one final patch today to address some minor issues in the game. Plus, the Hi-Fi Rush X (formerly Twitter) account has reconfirmed a physical edition of the game is coming from Limited Run Games. 

This update from the Hi-Fi Rush X account comes roughly one week after Xbox shut down the game's developer, Tango Gameworks, alongside Redfall studio Arkane Austin, and two more Bethesda teams. While there won't be any more Hi-Fi Rush content coming from Tango Gameworks, hopefully today's patch puts the game in the best playable state possible so that future players can enjoy the 2023 hit. 

Thank you all for your continued support.

We’re working to release the physical edition of Hi-Fi RUSH with our partners at Limited Run Games, as well as a final patch to address some minor issues releasing later today.

❤️
— Hi-Fi RUSH (@hifiRush) May 15, 2024

The closure of Tango Gameworks arrived roughly a year after the team delivered the extremely well-received Hi-Fi Rush, which by Xbox's own admitted metrics, was a big success. A few days after the closure of these studios, Xbox president Sarah Bond addressed the situation, stating that it's about keeping the business healthy in the long-term. 

For more, read Game Informer's Hi-Fi Rush review, and then read Game Informer's profile on the life and career of Hi-Fi Rush creator John Johanas. After that, check out this Game Informer feature about exploring Tokyo's Shibuya with Tango Gameworks. 

Have you played Hi-Fi Rush? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Hi-Fi Rush

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

January 25, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S, PC), March 19, 2024 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

