
  Hideo Kojima Teaming Up With French Glasses Designer Jean-François Rey To Create Death Stranding’s Ludens Mask And More






            Remember looking in the mirror as Sam for the first time in Death Stranding while wearing that Ludens mask? Remember how cool you felt (we all felt it, right?). Well, now you can be that cool, thanks to a team-up between Death Stranding director Hideo Kojima and French glasses designer Jean-François Rey. 

As reported by Video Games Chronicle, the two have teamed up to create a unique line of glasses, including one pair of glasses based on the Ludens mask featured in Death Stranding. Kojima was quiet on this collaboration, opting to simply post photos of the glasses on Instagram without captions, but it’s clear that these eyewear pieces are in some part designed by the game director. 

View this post on Instagram

A post shared by Hideo Kojima (@hideo_kojima)

Over on the glasses designer’s website, the Kojima collaboration is formally available for pre-order under the “Capsule Collection” umbrella. Those who pre-order now will receive their glasses by the end of March 2022. 

“New collaboration between Jean-François Rey and the famous video game designer Hideo Kojima,” the website reads. “Four original models with surprising designs, inspired by [the] Death Stranding futuristic universe. Under the artistic direction of Hideo Kojima, we have designed the Ludens mask, the hybrid SLS 3D, and metal Bridges frames worn by Sam Porter Bridges.” 

The HKxJF01 glasses feature two standard lenses and two transforming sunglass shades that can seemingly be placed in front of the glass lenses or pushed outwardly to sit beside each glass lens. 

 Jean-François ReyThe HKxJF02 glasses are perhaps the most standard-looking glasses of the bunch, and they come in black, blue, or army camouflage.

 Jean-François ReyThe third and final pair of glasses coming from this collaboration is the Ludens Mask + HKxJF03 combo. 

“The Ludens mask was modeled by our design studios, and will be produced with SLS technic,” the website reads. “It is equipped with adjustable nosepads and rimlocks for prescription lenses or sunglasses. Ludens maks is a genuine Collector’s item produced in a limited edition. It is delivered in a luxury packaging marked with the Hideo Kojima production house emblem.” 

 Jean-François ReyPrices aren’t listed for the glasses, and to preorder them, the listed number must be called, or the listed email must be messaged. If you preorder, you can deliver packages in style starting March 2022, when the glasses are released. 

For more about Death Stranding, check out our thoughts on the game in Game Informer’s Death Stranding review and then read about why we think the recently-released Death Stranding Director’s Cut is worth another trek across America. 

[Source: Video Games Chronicle]

Will you be picking up some Death Stranding-inspired glasses? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Death Stranding Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC, Mac

Release Date:

September 24, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 30, 2022 (PC), 2023 (Mac)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

