
  Hideki Kamiya Departing From Platinum Games Next Month






            Hideki Kamiya is leaving Platinum Games next month. Kamiya co-founded the Osaka, Japan-based studio in 2006 and later went on to direct games like Bayonetta and The Wonderful 101. His final day at Platinum will be October 12, according to both a statement released by the studio and Kamiya on his personal Twitter account. 

As for why, neither Platinum's statement nor Kamiya's own tweets indicate a specific reason. Platinum thanks Kamiya for his work while stating it looks forward to seeing what he does next, while Kamiya notes that the decision to leave was not an easy one but he feels it's for the best. 

Here's Platinum's statement: 

"We regret to announce that Hideki Kamiya will be leaving PlatinumGames on October 12, 2023. 

"We are truly grateful for his creative ideas, leadership, and contribution to the growth of PlatinumGames from our start-up to this very day. 

"We believe that he will continue to succeed in his future endeavors as a game creator. We are looking forward to seeing the game industry grow into a better place with him in it. We wish him all the best for the future!"

pic.twitter.com/GHiSugPF42
— PlatinumGames Inc. (@platinumgames) September 25, 2023

And here's what Kamiya tweeted today about his upcoming departure: 

"As announced on the official PlatinumGames X account, I will be leaving PlatinumGames on October 12, 2023. This came after a lot of consideration based on my own beliefs. And was by no means an easy decision to make. 

"However, I feel this outcome is for the best. I will continue to create in my Hideki Kamiya way. I hope you'll keep your eyes peeled."

However, I feel this outcome is for the best.
I will continue to create in my Hideki Kamiya way.
I hope you'll keep your eyes peeled.
(2/2)
— 神谷英樹 Hideki Kamiya (@PG_kamiya) September 25, 2023

Before co-founding Platinum in February of 2006, Kamiya worked on Capcom's Resident Evil series, helping plan the first game and directing its sequel, as well as its Devil May Cry series. He also directed the first Viewtiful Joe game, and then Okami in 2006 at Capcom's Clover Studio. Capcom closed Clover later that year but Platinum had already been somewhat founded under the name Seeds, Inc. It was later renamed Platinum Games and the rest was history. 

Kamiya departs from Platinum more than 17 years after he founded it alongside Shinji Mikami, who is no longer there and departed from Tango Gameworks earlier this year, and Atsushi Inaba, who is the studio's CEO.

While waiting to learn what Kamiya is up to next, read Game Informer's review of Bayonetta and then check out our thoughts on The Wonderful 101. Read Game Informer's Bayonetta 3 review after that and then read our review of Bayonetta Origins: Cereza and the Lost Demon. 

Do you think Kamiya will stay in game development? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Bayonetta

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

January 5, 2010 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), October 24, 2014 (Wii U), April 11, 2017 (PC), February 16, 2018 (Switch), February 18, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Bayonetta 3

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 28, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Bayonetta Origins: Cereza and the Lost Demon

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 17, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

