
  Horizon Forbidden West: Complete Edition Hits PS5 Next Week, PC Next Year






            PlayStation has announced Horizon Forbidden West: Complete Edition, which is a game package that includes both the base Horizon Forbidden West game and its DLC expansion from earlier this year, Burning Shores. This Complete Edition will hit PlayStation 5 next week on October 6. The PC version will be released in early 2024.

Horizon Forbidden West is the 2022 follow-up to 2017's Horizon Zero Dawn, and it was one of our favorite games of last year – read about why in Game Informer's review here. It hit both PS5 and PlayStation 4, but if you missed it last year, PlayStation and developer Guerrilla Games are making it easier to experience the full Forbidden West package on PS5 next week. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

In the base Forbidden West game, players once again control protagonist Aloy, this time on a journey to save the planet's crumbling biosphere from vicious storms and a mysterious and seemingly unstoppable blight that ravages the last remnants of humanity. "Her mission and the sinister secrets it uncovers will pit Aloy against ever-deadlier foes, taking her to the dangerous frontier of the Forbidden West and the treacherous Burning Shores beyond," a PlayStation Blog post reads. 

Before jumping into Forbidden West, read Game Informer's 10 tips and tricks to help you get started. 

In the Burning Shores DLC, "take on more awe-inspiring machines, meet new tribes, and travel to the treacherous archipelago of Los Angeles." You can read Game Informer's review of Horizon Forbidden West's Burning Shores DLC here. 

Here's everything you get in the Horizon Forbidden West: Complete Edition:

Horizon Forbidden West for PS5
Burning Shores DLC for PS5
Digital soundtrack
Digital art book
Horizon Zero Dawn Vol. 1: The Sunhawk digital comic book*
In-game items:
Extras in Photo Mode (special pose and face paint)

In-game items unlocked via story progression:
Carja Behemoth Elite outfit ·Carja Behemoth Short Bow
Nora Thunder Elite outfit
Nora Thunder Sling
Apex Clawstrider Machine Strike piece
Resources pack

The PS5 version of Horizon Forbidden West: Complete Edition releases next week on October 6. The PC version is being developed by Nixxes Software and will hit PC via Steam and the Epic Games Store in early 2024. 

In the meantime, read about how Guerrilla Games teased Aloy's next adventure earlier this year. 

Are you going to pick up Horizon Forbidden West: Complete Edition? Let us know in the comments below! 

      Products In This Article

Horizon Forbidden West

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

February 18, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Horizon Forbidden West: Burning Shores

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

April 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

