
  Housemarque Celebrates Returnal's 3-Year Anniversary With Fallen Asteria Animated Adaptation, Graphic Novel, And More






            Housemarque is celebrating the three-year anniversary of its hit shooter roguelike Returnal by teaming up with Dark Horse Comics for a graphic novel, artbook, and a new animated adaptation you can watch right now. This news follows yesterday's tease from both Housemarque and later Dark Horse Comics about Returnal, sending fans into an understandable frenzy about what the teams had in store for players. 

"Another year, another cycle," a post on X (formerly Twitter) from Housemarque reads. "The Third time around, extra loot is exposed with Dark Horse flair." 

Here's what that flair brings to the Returnal universe: 

Returnal: Fallen Asteria Graphic Novel
Returnal Artbook
Fallen Asteria Animated Adaptation
Now, even with PlayStation dipping its toes into cross-media production with Amazon's God of War series and Netflix's Horizon adaptation, this Returnal adaptation isn't the same. Instead, it's an "animated version of the first issue of the upcoming graphic novel, Returnal: Fallen Asteria." Check it out for yourself below: 

Housemarque says the 88-page graphic novel will arrive in paperback on bookstore shelves starting October 22, 2024, and it will hit comic book shops the next day. 

It's unclear if the animated adaptation above is the animated adaptation today's announcement refers to or if it's just the first part of it since it only adapts the first issue of the graphic novel. 

Here's a look at the Returnal: Fallen Asteria issues coming this October: 

There's no word on when the Returnal artbook will arrive, but presumably it's this year. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Returnal review, and then check out this story about the PC specs required to play Returnal on a desktop or laptop. After that, read about Returnal's Ascension update, which added co-op gameplay and a new challenge tower to the game. 

Returnal hit PlayStation 5 on April 30, 2021. It launched on PC on February 15, 2023. 

Are you excited about today's Returnal news? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Returnal

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

April 30, 2021 (PlayStation 5), February 15, 2023 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

