
  Insomniac Says Marvel's Spider-Man 2 New Game Plus 'Should Be Before End Of Year'






            Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is almost here – just one more day until it hits PlayStation 5 exclusively on October 20. We loved it – read Game Informer's review of it here – and are excited for everyone to get their hands on it. Yesterday, we learned Insomniac Games recommends players download the day one patch for the "best experience" before starting the first mission, and now, we've learned when to expect the fan-favorite New Game Plus feature in the sequel. 

As first reported by PlayStation Lifestyle, someone asked Insomniac Games community director James Stevenson if New Game Plus and mission replay will be in the game at launch. Stevenson said, "No, we're working on an update for those features but they won't be in Day 1."

No - we’re working on an update for those features but they won’t be in Day 1
— James Stevenson (@JamesStevenson) October 17, 2023

After someone on Twitter expressed their disappointment in the replies, Stevenson clarified that New Game Plus was not a Day 1 feature in the original Marvel's Spider-Man, but instead a mode added roughly six weeks after launch. 

Someone else asked Stevenson on Twitter if New Game Plus is coming this year or 2024 and Stevenson said it "should be before end of year."

Should be before end of year
— James Stevenson (@JamesStevenson) October 18, 2023

So if you're looking forward to replaying the story of Marvel's Spider-Man 2 with all of your favorite suits, gadgets, abilities, and more unlocked from the jump, it sounds like it could be just a month or two away. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Marvel's Spider-Man 2 review and then read about the Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Day 1 patch. After that, check out Game Informer's spoiler-free tips to know before starting Marvel's Spider-Man 2. 

Are you jumping into Marvel's Spider-Man 2 tomorrow? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Spider-Man 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

