
  Justin Roiland Resigns From High On Life Dev Squanch Games Following Domestic Abuse Charges






            Justin Roiland has resigned from Squanch Games following domestic abuse charges. 

The High On Life Twitter account released a statement yesterday, revealing that the studio received Roiland's resignation on January 16. Squanch says it will "keep developing games we know our fans will love while continuing to support and improve High On Life."

pic.twitter.com/xj1QgPskas
— High On Life (@highonlifegame) January 25, 2023

This statement came just a couple of hours after the official Rick and Morty Twitter account posted a statement revealing that Adult Swim has ended its association with Roiland. However, Rick and Morty will continue and the current talent and crew is currently working on Season 7. 

The titular charcters of the show will be recast as Roiland provided the voice for both of them. 

pic.twitter.com/npS7WpywtD
— Rick and Morty (@RickandMorty) January 24, 2023

All of this comes after news broke on January 12 that Roiland had been charged with domestic violence charges in Orange County, California, in relation to an alleged 2020 incident. As reported by The Hollywood Reporter, a May 2020 felony complaint reveals Roiland has been charged with one count of domestic battery with corporal injury and one count of false imprisonment by menace, violence, fraud or deceit. The complaint says these charges come from a Jane Doe "who was in a dating relationship with the defendant." 

Roiland pleaded not guilty and was released on a $50,000 bond in August 2020. During a pre-trial hearing that happened earlier this month, Roiland's attorney said Roiland heard a plea offer, but not other details regarding it or whether Roiland was taking it have been revealed. 

Squanch Games was co-founded by Roiland in 2016 and in its tenure thus far has developed Accounting+, PlayStation VR game Trover Saves The Universe, and last year's High On Life. 

      Products In This Article

High On Life

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 13, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

