
  Kill Knight Is A Hades-Inspired Isometric Arcade Shooter Set In An Eldritch Abyss Of Horror






            PlaySide Studios has revealed Kill Knight, a new Hades-inspired isometric arcade shooter coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC this year. Revealed with a gameplay trailer during today's Triple-i Initiative Showcase, Kill Knight plunges players into an Eldritch abyss of horrors where waves of enemies stand in the way of their one goal: kill the last angel. 

"Once a loyal knight, betrayed, and banished to the Abyss," a press release for Kill Knight reads. "A desecrated corpse inside reanimated armor. You rise to an eternal death. Branded Kill Knight, you have one purpose – kill the last angel. Players must learn to exploit enemy weaknesses, enact brutal executions, and weave through the Knight's Arsenal to tactically manage resources as they dance with death in the Abyss and take the fight to global leaderboards against friends and foes alike." 

Check out the Kill Knight reveal trailer for yourself below: 

In Kill Knight, players are challenged to master the demon within as they descend through the voids of an eldritch arena and harness a devastating arsenal of armor and weapons against swarms of otherworldly horrors. As you can see in the trailer above, Kill Knight features fast and visceral top-down arcade-action combat with a disgustingly horrific otherworld to traverse through. There are five fatal layers to get through, each more deadly than the last, according to PlaySide Studios. 

As you survive waves of enemies, your Kill Power will increase, which in turn increases your speed and damage. Plus, there are plenty of challenges to unlock your Knight's Arsenal "and evolve your playstyle." In Master Mode, all five layers become one extended arena, and you can track your skill on a global leaderboard, too. 

Here are some Kill Knight screenshots for your viewing: 

Kill Knights hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC this year. 

Are you going to check out Kill Knight later this year? Let us know in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

