
  Lake's Holiday Themed Season's Greetings DLC Hits The Game Next Month






            Earlier this year, developer Gamious and publisher Whitethorn Digital revealed Lake's holiday DLC, Season's Greetings. Now, Game Informer can exclusively reveal that Lake's Season's Greetings DLC goes live next month. 

More specifically, Season's Greetings hits Lake on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on November 15. It will be paid DLC, but the team has not yet announced a price. Alongside this news, Gamious has released a new trailer for Season's Greetings that you can watch below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

As you can see in the trailer above, Season's Greetings brings players to a snow-covered Providence Oaks during 1985's holiday season, set one year before the original story of Lake. In it, players control Thomas Weiss, an amiable mail carrier and father to Lake protagonist Meredith Weiss. 

"Changing the perspective from Meredith to her father, players will gain an understanding of the Weiss family dynamics and an insight into a snow-covered Providence Oaks from a long-time resident's point of view," a press release reads. "Not only will players learn more about the familiar faces they have grown to love from the main story, but Season's Greetings introduces five completely new characters to the town of Providence Oaks, each with their very own storylines." 

Gamious says the DLC will also provide some answers to unanswered questions teased in Lake while continuing the game's focus on slice-of-life themes and relaxing vibes. The story, like the base game, features a branching narrative where there are no right or wrong answers. 

Here are some Lake: Season's Greetings DLC screenshots:

Lake's Season's Greetings DLC hits the game on November 15. It will be available everywhere the base game is playable.

While waiting for the DLC to release, read Game Informer's Lake impressions. 

[Editor's Note: This story originally said the Season's Greeting DLC was free, but has been corrected to say it will be paid DLC. However, the price won't be announced until closer to its launch]

Are you going to check out Season's Greetings next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Lake

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

September 1, 2021 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC), April 8, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4), June 1, 2022 (Stadia)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

