
  Leaked Microsoft Doc Indicates Xbox Is Working On Oblivion Remaster, Fallout 3 Remaster, Dishonored 3, And More






            Microsoft and Xbox representatives appeared in court earlier this year to get its $69 billion acquisition of Activision Blizzard legally greenlit. Per usual court proceedings, various emails, documents, and more were sealed away from the public and press, but many unseen documents leaked this morning. It's how we learned Xbox head Phil Spencer considered acquiring Nintendo and Warner Bros. Games at one point, and that Microsoft is planning an Xbox Series X/S refresh with a new controller for next year. Other documents point to potential remasters of Fallout 3 and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, alongside other games. 

More specifically, a "ZeniMax Management Forecast" document details plans for various games, including the aforementioned remasters of Fallout 3 and Oblivion, alongside a potential sequel to 2022’s Ghostwire: Tokyo and a third installment in Arkane's Dishonored series.

You can take a look at the document for yourself below (credit to Game Pass Tracker on Twitter): 

pic.twitter.com/UPGok44xtZ
— Game Pass Tracker on 𝕏 (@gamepasstracker) September 19, 2023

As you can see, this document mentions other games we know about, like Machine Games' Indiana Jones project, 2021's Deathloop, and the recently released Starfield. 

It also mentions The Elder Scrolls VI, which we just learned will launch no earlier than 2026 and will not launch on Sony's PlayStation 5. 

It's important to note that this leaked document is over three years old, so it's safe to assume plans have changed and that this schedule likely does not represent the company's current plans.

For more, read about how Xbox head Phil Spencer considered acquiring Nintendo and Warner Bros. Games in 2020, and then check out the refreshed Xbox Series X/S and new Xbox controller coming next year, according to internal Microsoft documents. 

Which of these games would you be most excited about? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Xbox Series X

Release Date:

November 10, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Fallout 3

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

October 28, 2008

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

