
  Lightning McQueen Races Into Rocket League This Week






            Kachow! Cars' Lightning McQueen is joining Rocket League tomorrow, November 7, with special decals, Goal Explosions, and more. Lightning McQueen is also an extra special release. Beyond being a big collaboration between the vehicular soccer game and Disney and Pixar, it's the first car in Rocket League to feature dynamic expressions. 

Like in the Cars Pixar franchise, Lightning McQueen will look around the pitch while you cruise the Arena, narrow his eyes as you focus his speed, and react with each score. "With the Lightning McQueen Mega Bundle, you'll be able to play as three different versions of the Route 66 icon," a blog post reads. "First up is the Rust-eze Decal. With number 95 on the side and a flashy lightning bolt, you'll be taking the winner's podium with plenty of style to spare." 

There's also the Cruisin' Decal and the Dinoco Decal, and you can see both in action in the gallery below: 

With the Ka-chow Goal Explosion, every goal you score can be celebrated in a way only Lightning McQueen knows how, and with the new "Life Is A Highway" Player Anthem by Rascal Flatts, you can take your wins to another level of Cars excitement. 

"The red Lightyear Racing Wheels and blue Lightyear Dinoco Wheels are both runed and ready for the pitch," a blog post reads. "The Lightyear Whitewall Wheels brings back memories of classic hot roads and roasters." You can check these out in the gallery above. The Lightning McQueen Car, Ka-chow Goal Explosion, and the "Life Is A Highway" Player Anthem can also be purchased separately if you're not interested in the Lightning McQueen Mega Bundle. 

The Lightning McQueen Mega Bundle will cost 2500 Rocket League credits and includes the following: 

Lightning McQueen Car (Dominus Hitbox)
Rust-eze Decal
Dinoco Decal
Cruisin' Decal
Lightyear Racing Wheels
Lightyear Dinoco Wheels
Lightyear Whitewall Wheels
Ka-chow Goal Explosion
Lightning McQueen Player Banner
"Life Is A Highway" Player Anthem by Rascal Flatts

Lightning McQueen hits Rocket League on November 7. 

For more, read Game Informer's Rocket League review. 

Are you picking up Lightning McQueen? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Rocket League

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 7, 2015 (PlayStation 4, PC), February 17, 2016 (Xbox One), November 14, 2017 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

