
  Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name Announced, Follows Kiryu's Life After Yakuza 6






            Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio announced that Yakuza 8 is called Like A Dragon 8 today, and that game's announcement trailer revealed that former series protagonist Kazuma Kiryu is back alongside Yakuza: Like A Dragon protagonist Ichiban Kasuga. Now, RGG has announced Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, a new Yakuza game that will follow Kiryu's life following the events of Yakuza 6: The Song of Life leading up to Like A Dragon 8. 

In the reveal trailer, which aired today during the RGG Summit 2022 showcase, we see Kiryu at a monastery. Having left behind his former Yakuza life, as well as his name, Kiryu, who now goes by Joryu, is trying to live the life of a monk. However, he's seemingly pulled into one more job – an escort mission – and if today's Like A Dragon 8 trailer is any indication, it seems this final job pulls him back into the life he had put behind him. 

Check it out for yourself in the reveal trailer below:

Sorry, this video is not available

As you can see, The Man Who Erased His Name is shaping up to be a treat for longtime Yakuza fans and it seems like necessary playing in the leadup to 2024's Like A Dragon 8. Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC in 2023. 

For more, read about today's Like A Dragon 8 reveal and then check out this story about Like A Dragon: Ishin, a 2014 Yakuza spin-off finally coming to the West next year. 

      Products In This Article

Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 9, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

