
  Lollipop Chainsaw RePop Launches This September, Remastered Features Revealed






            Developer-publisher Dragami Games has revealed that Lollipop Chainsaw RePop, its remaster of the 2012 zombie action game, will launch September 25 on PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC. Dragami revealed this release date in RePop's first trailer, which shows off some of the remastered gameplay and the characters players will meet in the game.  Lollipop Chainsaw represents a collaboration between Goichi "Suda51" Suda (No More Heroes, Killer7), and Guardians of the Galaxy director and now DC film head James Gunn. At the time of Lollipop Chainsaw's release, Gunn was known primarily for directing the films Slither and Super, and writing the two live-action Scooby Doo films and Zach Snyder's Dawn of the Dead remake. We spoke with Suda51 recently about his career and whether or not he keeps up with James Gunn.

Alongside the trailer, Dragami has also released various details related to the remaster of Chainsaw Lollipop, including word that PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC players can enjoy the game with 4K resolution and 60 FPS (the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Switch versions support 1080p resolution and 30 FPS). Dragami says RePop has shorter load times, improved camera and keystroke response, increased attack speed, and faster movement speed, too. 

Plus, the Chainsaw Blaster now has "auto rock on," an auto-fire mode, and an increased maximum ammunition count, while combos are now usable from the start of the game. Nick Roulette has received some changes, and so have minigames. Plus, a new auto-QTE feature is on by default now. 

Check all of it out for yourself in the Chainsaw Lollipop RePop gameplay trailer below: 

Lollipop Chainsaw RePop will be available on September 25 for the PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC. 

 For more, read Game Informer's original Lollipop Chainsaw review here. 

Are you going to be playing Chainsaw Lollipop RePop this September? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Lollipop Chainsaw RePOP

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

