
  Magical Metroidvania Tales Of Kenzera: Zau Hits PlayStation Plus Game Catalog On Day One






            Surgent Studios founder Abubakar Salim, who is also the voice of Bayek in Assassin's Creed Origins, took the stage at The Game Awards 2023 last December to reveal Tales of Kenzera: Zau, a magical Metroidvania inspired by Bantu myth. It hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC later this month on April 23, and now we know it will be available as part of the PlayStation Plus Game Catalog on launch day. 

That means all PlayStation Plus Extra and Premium subscribers can access the game at launch for no additional cost. 

For the uninitiated, Tales of Kenzera: Zau is a 2.5D story-driven Metroidvania with plenty of combat and exploration. A new PlayStation Blog post says the game is all about facing grief and its many faces while also discovering how love gives us the courage to press on after devastating loss. 

Check out the latest Tales of Kenzera: Zau gameplay trailer below: 

As you can see, players control Zau, a young warrior-shaman from Amandla in search of Kalunga, the God of Death. As for why, Zau wants to bring his Baba back from the realm of the dead. 

"Wielding two powerful masks imbued with the cosmic power of the sun and the moon in a beautiful and chaotic dance, Zau travels across Kenzera, a rich mystical realm inspired by Bantu tales, fighting tough ancestral spirits and platforming obstacles to find the 3 mighty beings that have eluded the God of Death," the PlayStation Blog post reads. "Zau will discover and unlock new powerful abilities and skills during his quest to become a worthy Nganga and reclaim his lost Baba. 

"These include mighty Spirit Attacks like the ferocious Lunar Beam blast that can be unleashed to obliterate enemies using the Moon Mask and the engulfing fire Supernova that can be used to scorch nearby foes with Shamanistic fire using the Sun Mask."

Tales of Kenzera: Zau hits PlayStation Plus on April 23 alongside the standard PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC launch that same day. For more about the game, check out the Tales of Kenzera: Zau reveal trailer here. 

Are you picking up Tales of Kenzera: Zau on day one later this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Tales of Kenzera: Zau

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

April 23, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

