
  Marvel's Spider-Man 2: Venom Voice Actor Hints At September Release Date 






            Editor’s Note: This story’s headline has been changed to better reflect that a voice actor from Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 hinted at a September release date, even though developer Insomniac Games has only said the game will be released this fall. 

News on Marvel's Spider-Man 2, the highly anticipated follow-up to Insomniac Games' Marvel's Spider-Man from 2018 and 2020's Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales, has been light since the game's reveal in 2021. But back in December, PlayStation did reveal that Marvel's Spider-Man 2 would be out sometime this Fall. 

According to the voice actor for Venom in the game, Tony Todd (who we heard briefly in the game's reveal trailer), Marvel's Spider-Man 2 could be out this September. Strangely, Todd responded to a fan excited about the game and spilled the beans. 

"Looks like September! Massive publicity coming in august. Commercials start dropping in august so I'm told. Hold on to your...and hold breath! Gonna be necessary"

Looks like September! Massive publicity coming in august. Commercials start dropping in august so I’m told. Hold on to your … and hold breath! Gonna be necessary
— Tony Todd (@TonyTodd54) March 21, 2023

Sure seems like information Todd wasn't supposed to reveal, right? Despite what you might think, though, Todd's tweet is still up at the time of this writing, meaning Insomniac Games hasn't made him take it down (yet). 

Once people started to realize that Todd had potentially revealed Marvel's Spider-Man 2's release date, he cheekily tweeted the following: 

No more hints about #Spiderman2 it was all a fever dream Blame it on jet lag who knows I might not even b #Venom pic.twitter.com/dKf1EsLFwQ
— Tony Todd (@TonyTodd54) March 21, 2023

Now, it's important to note that just because Todd hints the game is coming this September doesn't mean it actually is. We should remain cautious about an official release date or release month until it comes from developer Insomniac Games. But September lines up with the previously revealed Fall window.

A September release date would put this big PlayStation first-party launch up against Xbox's big first-party launch in Starfield (September 6) so this Fall could be quite busy. 

Do you think Marvel's Spider-Man 2 will launch in September? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Spider-Man 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

