
  Marvel's Spider-Man 2: Insomniac Says To Download Day One Patch For 'Best Experience'






            More than two years after its initial reveal trailer, Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is almost here. Due out October 20 exclusively on PlayStation 5, developer Insomniac Games' sequel to 2018's Marvel's Spider-Man and 2020's Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales is a game we thoroughly enjoyed – read Game Informer's Marvel's Spider-Man 2 review here – and we're excited for others to play it. Insomniac is too, but in a new statement, it tells players that while the game will be playable on physical discs in full, it recommends downloading the day one patch. 

More specifically, the download update is Version 1.001.002 and it will be available at launch this Friday. Digital owners don't need to worry about this as the patch will be installed as part of the pre-loaded version of Marvel's Spider-Man 2. 

Keep up with the latest updates for Marvel's #SpiderMan2PS5! #BeGreaterTogether pic.twitter.com/Z8ZDjscyB4
— Insomniac Games (@insomniacgames) October 17, 2023

"The disc contains the entire game and is playable from start to finish with no patch or online requirement," Insomniac's statement reads. "But for the best experience, we highly encourage physical/disc-based players to download update Version 1.001.002 on launch day – prior to experiencing the opening mission of the game for the first time. Digital players – don't worry, if you pre-load the digital version of the game, you'll get 1.001.002 as your pre-loaded version." 

As for why, Insomniac says this update features polish to the gold master of Marvel's Spider-Man 2 available on disc. It improves the opening sections of the game and includes other general refinements to the Spidey experience. It also includes some additional accessibility options. 

Marvel's Spider-Man 2 hits PlayStation 5 on October 20. 

For more, read Game Informer's Marvel's Spider-Man 2 review and then watch this Marvel's Spider-Man 2 cinematic trailer. After that, check out some gameplay in Game Informer's Marvel's Spider-Man 2 New Gameplay Today. 

Are you playing Marvel's Spider-Man 2 this Friday? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Spider-Man 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

