
  Meta Quest 3 Coming This Fall, Will Cost $499






            Meta has revealed the Meta Quest 3 and it's coming this fall. It will cost $499 for the 128GB headset, but an additional storage option will be available for purchase for those who want more space. 

The Meta Quest 3 offers higher resolution, stronger performance, and a slimmer and apparently more comfortable form factor, according to Meta. Like the Quest and Quest 2, it is completely wireless. 

"Quest 3 combines our highest resolution display and pancake optics to make content look better than ever," a press release reads. "To power those extra pixels, this will be the first headset to feature a next-generation Snapdragon chipset developed in collaboration with Qualcomm Technologies. That next-gen Snapdragon chipset delivers more than twice the graphical performance as the previous generation Snapdragon GPU in Quest 2 – meaning you'll get smoother performance and incredibly crisp details in immersive games."

Meta Quest 3 will feature both virtual reality and "Meta Reality" technology to "seamlessly blend your physical world with the virtual one." For example, you could play a virtual board game set up on your real-world coffee table. 

Compared to Meta Quest 2, the Meta Quest 3 features a 40% slimmer optic profile and Meta says it is a sleeker, more comfortable headset as a result. The Touch Plus controllers have been streamlined and are more ergonomic, according to Meta, as well, as they feature the TruTouch haptics in Meta's Touch Pro controllers. The Meta Quest platform features more than 500 VR games, apps, and experiences, and the library continues to grow, with new VR and mixed reality titles lined up for launch, Meta promises. 

We'll see some of those games as a Meta Connect event is scheduled for September 27. There is also a Meta Quest Gaming Showcase happening later today at 10 a.m. PT/1 p.m. ET.

Alongside the reveal of the Meta Quest 3, Meta has announced that the Meta Quest 2, which first launched in 2020, will drop in price to $299 for the 128GB headset and $349.99 for the 256GB headset starting June 4. 

Plus, in a new upcoming software update, Meta is updating the Quest 2 and Quest Pro GPU and CPU to get up to a 26% CPU performance increase and up to a 19% GPU speed increase for Quest 2, and 11% for the Quest Pro. 

Are you picking up a Meta Quest 3? Let us know in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

