
  Metaphor: ReFantazio Gets October Release Date In New Gameplay Trailer






            Publisher Atlus and developer Studio Zero have released a new trailer for the upcoming fantasy RPG, Metaphor: ReFantazio, and it features plenty of new gameplay. It also reveals Metaphor: ReFantazio will hit PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on October 11. 

Dubbed "The King's Trial," this new trailer sets up a bit of the Metaphor: ReFantazio's world more, highlighting a tournament for the king's throne at the center of the narrative. It seems our protagonist and the friends and allies they encounter along the way are vying for a crown that others are also after. In order to claim it, players must complete trials across the lands, proving their worth. 

Check it out for yourself in the Metaphor: ReFantazio gameplay trailer below: 

As you can see, Metaphor: ReFantazio continues to look excellent, with its Persona inspirations on full display. That's not surprising, though, considering Studio Zero is composed of various leads from Atlus' popular Persona series, including the latest in the franchise, Persona 5. 

If you've played Persona 5 Royal, or even the recently released Persona 3 Reload, then you know we're likely in for a treat when it comes to a few things: combat, narrative, and art. And if this new look at the game's menu are any indication, the Persona team has been cooking something special for Metaphor: ReFantazio. 

The trailer also reveals Metaphor: ReFantazio will get a special Collector's Edition for $149.99. The game's standard release will cost $69.99.

Here's what the Collector's Edition looks like: 

Metaphor: ReFantazio hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on October 11, 2024. 

For more about the game, watch the Metaphor: ReFantazio reveal trailer. Read Game Informer's Persona 5 Royal review, and then read Game Informer's Persona 5 Tactica review after that. 

Are you picking up Metaphor: ReFantazio on day one? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Metaphor: ReFantazio

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

October 11, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

