
  Mira And The Legend Of The Djinns Is An Upcoming Metroidvania Inspired By Moroccan Mythology






            Developer Little Knight Games has revealed Mira and the Legend of the Djinns, an upcoming 2D side-scrolling Metroidvania inspired by Moroccan mythology. Set to be published by Assemble Entertainment, which is publishing Endzone 2 this spring, Mira and the Legend of the Djinns is due out on PC via Steam this year. 

In classic Metroidvania fashion, you can expect plenty of enemies and secrets to discover with a variety of tools, items, and abilities as you progress through the game. Plus, unlockable moves add flair to your exploration and combat encounters as you attempt to uncover the secret of the last Djinn. 

Check out Mira and the Legend of the Djinns for yourself below:

"Not every ancient treasure belongs in a museum, as treasure hunter Yuba discovers within the debris of the kingdom of Fallen Amazgesh," a press release reads. "There, Yuba meets a Djinn named Mira, a race long lost to the world of man, and the pair team up together to escape the ruins and discover Mira's lost memories."

Little Knight Games says the game's combat "emphasizes fluidity and experimentation, and allows you to switch between weapons and elemental modes on the fly." The Germany-based studio says it's a team of seven people from different countries around the world and that Mira and the Legend of the Djinns is a love letter to Metroidvanias, "featuring a world based on the Moroccan and Amazigh mythology." 

"Morocco has a rich culture filled with fantasy stories about Djinns and mysterious creatures," the press release reads. "With the team's diverse background, they wanted to show this in their very first game." 

Other Mira and the Legend of the Djinns features include a sprawling map full of secrets, fast action combat, and a mystery to keep you pushing forward. 

Mira and the Legend of the Djinns is due out on PC this year. 

While waiting for its release, read Game Informer's top 10 Metroidvanias to play right now. 

Are you interested in checking out Mira and the Legend of the Djinns? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mira and the Legend of the Djinns

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

