
  Moon Studios' No Rest For The Wicked Doesn't Require Online Connection To Play Single-Player






            Moon Studios co-founder and tech and production director Gennadiy Korol has revealed the team's upcoming action-RPG, No Rest for the Wicked, which is also the game on Game Informer's cover this month, will not require an online connection to play single-player. Although, if you've read our cover story about the game, you already know this, and you also know you can play the game with up to three friends on a shared living server.

What's more, Korol says the game will feature "a rich Offline Mode" for those not interested in the game's multiplayer elements.

Korol announced this today on X (formerly Twitter), expanding on Moon's thoughts about No Rest for the Wicked as both a single-player and multiplayer game. 

"Even though Wicked was built from the ground up with multiplayer in mind, we did not want offline-play to feel like a second thought and we want people to be able to play on the go when connection quality is not always ideal," Korol writes. "Our April 18th [Early Access launch on PC] will focus on the single player experience and we will be sharing more details about the Multiplayer aspect of the game later in our Early Access campaign." 

Game Informer has played hours of No Rest for the Wicked, so far only in single-player, and it's been a blast. You can read our preview thoughts on the game's opening hours here, and you can watch it for yourself in our No Rest for the Wicked New Gameplay Today.

Read about No Rest for the Wicked's early access roadmap and Cerim's Crucible endgame content after that, and for even more exclusive content, head to Game Informer's No Rest for the Wicked coverage hub. 

Are you going to play No Rest for the Wicked with friends or alone? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

No Rest for the Wicked

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024 (PC), TBA (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

