
  Mortal Kombat 1: Check Out John Cena's Peacemaker Debut In New Gameplay Trailer






            Mortal Kombat 1 reset the fighting universe when it launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC last September. Now, it's time for a new fighter from a different universe to join the roster. John Cena's Peacemaker, the hero that first appeared in 2021's The Suicide Squad and later in his epoynomous HBO Max series, joins the game next week on February 28. 

Ahead of his release, NetherRealm Studios has released the first look at Peacemaker's gameplay in Mortal Kombat 1, and it features a lot of justice, a lot of peace, and, of course, a lot of blood. 

Check out the Peacemaker gameplay trailer for yourself below: 

As you can see in the trailer above, Peacemaker is voiced by Cena himself and features moves inspired by the character's live-action counterpart. That includes the fatality, which starts with Peacemaker ripping Quan-Chi in half by way of jet pack before sonic booming the rest of his body into bits. 

Peacemaker hits the Mortal Kombat 1 roster on February 28 for those who own the Premium Edition of the game or the Kombat Pack. Peacemaker goes live for individual purchase on March 6. 

Elsewhere in this trailer, we learn that Janet Cage is joining the game as a new Kameo fighter in March – she's an alternate version of Johnny Cage from a different reality. We also learn that crossplay (or Krossplay as NetherRealm calls it) will go live on February 28, allowing PS5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC (via Steam and the Epic Games Store) players to fight against each other in-game. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Mortal Kombat 1 review. 

Are you going to play as Peacemaker in Mortal Kombat 1 next week? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

