
  Mortal Kombat 1: Ed Boon Confirms Story DLC, Teases 'Big Surprise' 






            Mortal Kombat 1 launched back in September and became one of our favorite games of the year – read why in Game Informer's Mortal Kombat 1 review here. Since its release, developer NetherRealm Studios has released additional characters, like Invincible's Omni-Man, while teasing other new fighters like Quan Chi and DC's Peacemaker. Now, Mortal Kombat creator Ed Boon has teased even more new content on the way. 

During the recent CCXP23 event in Brazil, Boon revealed that story DLC is coming, as reported by IGN. 

"Just like we did with [Mortal Kombat 11], we're going to release a second part with more story and we have a big surprise after that," Boon told the crowd at CCXP23. 

Mentioning Mortal Kombat 11, it's likely that Boon was referring to its Aftermath DLC, which included an all-new story and more. After this story DLC release for Mortal Kombat 1, it sounds like players can expect even more in the form of a "big surprise." Unfortunately, Boon stopped short of sharing more about this surprise. 

This additional content speaks to the studio's philosophy around supporting Mortal Kombat 1 post-launch. Boon said during CCXP23 that, "[We're] going to be supporting the game for even longer than we did with Mortal Kombat 11," adding that, "It's going to be fun." 

If the recent cadence of content is any indication, Mortal Kombat 1 fans are in for a treat over the next few years with NetherRealm's latest fighter. 

For more, read Game Informer's Mortal Kombat 1 review and then check out Boon on the YouTube interview show, Hot Ones. 

[Source: IGN]

What do you think this big surprise for Mortal Kombat 1 could be? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

