
  Mortal Kombat 1 Launch Trailer Features Shang Tsung, Reiko, And Plenty More






            NetherRealm Studios' latest 2D fighter, Mortal Kombat 1, is right around the corner. Premium and Kollector Editions of the game go live this Thursday, September 14, and the regular edition goes live next week on September 19. Ahead of the game's release, NetherRealm has released the official launch trailer, featuring four minutes of new gameplay, fatalities, gore, and more. 

Today's trailer also features our first look at gameplay for Shang Tsung, whom you get if you preorder the game, more of the story, which centers on a rebooted Mortal Kombat universe by way of Fire God Liu Kang, and Reiko, General Shao's second-in-command. Check it out for yourself below:

Sorry, this video is not available

Shang Tsung is still a sorcerer and his moveset in the trailer reflects that, with fiery projectiles, massive combos, and the ability to morph into other fighters. Reiko, on the other hand, is described by NetherRealm as "a savage warrior with a fighting style that matches his fierce persona." Elsewhere in the trailer, we get new looks at many of the roster's other fighters, like the Jean-Claude Van Damme skin for Johnny Cage and the recently revealed Nitara, who Megan Fox voices. 

Mortal Kombat 1 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC on September 14 for Premium and Kollector editions of the game. The rest of the editions go live on September 19. 

While waiting for the game's release, watch Ed Boon talk about Mortal Kombat 1 on hot wing-eating interview show Hot Ones, and then watch this Nitara gameplay trailer. After that, read our hands-on impressions of Mortal Kombat 1's Invasions and Story Mode.

Are you jumping into Mortal Kombat 1 this week? Let us know who you’re going to main in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

