
  Mr. Run And Jump | New Gameplay Today






            Join Wesley LeBlanc and Brian Shea as the two discuss Mr. Run and Jump, a new challenging platformer from developers Graphite Lab and Heavy Horse Games that originally started out as a homebrew game for Atari 2600. Wesley's played the opening hour of the game, and Brian completed and reviewed it for Game Informer – you can read his Mr. Run and Jump review here. 

In this New Gameplay Today, we check out some of the first levels in Mr. Run and Jump as well as some late-game levels. Enjoy!

Atari, which is publishing the game, announced Mr. Run and Jump earlier this year and it's out tomorrow, July 25. In Mr. Run and Jump, players explore the Realms of Color on an adventure to defeat Void and find the hero's ever-missing dog, Leap. Originally created as an Atari 2600 title in 2021, Atari took notice and Graphite Lab and Heavy Horse Games developed this new modernized version (with a nod to the original in the game's start). 

You can check out the Mr. Run and Jump announcement trailer below for another look: 

Mr. Run and Jump hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, and Atari VCS on July 25. Read Brian's review here. 

For more on Atari's recent successes, read Game Informer's review of Atari 50: The Anniversary Celebration. 

Are you going to check out Mr. Run and Jump? Let us know in the comments below!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Mr. Run And Jump

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 25, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

