
  Narrative Adventure Game Open Roads Gets February Release Date






            Open Roads, the narrative adventure game starring Keri Russell (The Americans, Star Wars Episode IX: Rise of Skywalker) and Kaitlyn Dever (Booksmart, Uncharted 4: A Thief's End), finally has a release date, nearly three years after its initial reveal at The Game Awards 2020. It hits consoles and PC on February 22, 2024. 

Publisher Annapurna Interactive announced this release date today with a new trailer that features Russell talking about the game. Check out the Open Roads release date trailer for yourself below: 

A likely reason Open Roads took three years to reveal a release date after its 2020 debut is because its original creative lead, Steve Gaynor, co-founder of Fullbright and director of Gone Home, was accused of cultivating a hostile work environment in 2021, as reported by Polygon. Shortly after the allegations arose, Gaynor stepped back from his role as creative lead and manager. Since then, Open Roads has detached itself from Fullbright, with the small team of developers behind the title going by Open Roads Team.  

Game Informer spoke to the Open Roads Team in 2022 about these changes and how it was moving forward with the game's development – you can read our in-depth feature about it here. 

"In Open Roads, Tess [Devers] and Opal [Russell] embark on a road trip adventure to explore a series of long-abandoned properties, unearthing the past," the game's description reads on Steam. "They'll search the ruins of these places that hold buried memories, things Opal has tried for years to forget. And in this search, they'll discover not just the truth they've been seeking, but each other." 

Open Roads hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on Febraury 22, 2024. 

Are you going to check out Open Roads next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Open Roads

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 28, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

