
  Netflix Highlights Five New Games Coming To Its Platform, Including Oxenfree II, Lego Legacy, And More






            Netflix has pulled back the curtains on five upcoming games coming to its gaming platform. Those games are Oxenfree II: Lost Signals, The Queen's Gambit Chess, Cut the Rope Daily, Lego Legacy: Heroes Unboxed, and Paper Trail. 

There are already 60 games on Netflix available to all subscribers and these five games will join the lineup this summer. More specifically, Oxenfree II hits Netflix (mobile), Switch, PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, and Mac on July 12, while The Queen's Gambit Chess hits Netflix on July 25. Cut the Rope Daily hits the platform on August 1 and Lego Legacy: Heroes Unboxed and Paper Trail are currently listed as "coming soon". 

Check out all five of these games in action in the new Netflix Games trailer below: 

Sorry, this video is not available

Alongside this new trailer, Netflix has released new information about each, which you can read below: 

Oxenfree II: Lost Signals 

"From Night School, a Netflix Game Studio, Oxenfree II: Lost Signals is the mind-bending follow-up to the critically-acclaimed supernatural thriller Oxenfree. Set five years after the events of the first game, the game will take players on a gripping narrative-driven adventure featuring an all-new cast of characters and original story. Oxenfree II: Lost Signals is set to launch on July 12 on the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5 & 4, PC and Mac via Steam, and exclusively for Netflix members on mobile."

The Queen's Gambit Chess

"Welcome to Beth Harmon's world. Take lessons, play puzzles and matches or compete against friends in this stunning love letter to the award-winning drama. Beyond the chess board, players can meet familiar faces like Mr. Shaibel and Borgov, visit iconic locations including Beth's house, the Methuen orphanage, the Las Vegas tournament, and more. From new beginners to chess masters, this immersive experience appeals to every type of fan. Available exclusively for Netflix members."

Cut the Rope Daily

"The legendary Om Nom is back — and craving candy! In this new twist on the classic Cut the Rope game that has been downloaded more than 1.6 billion times, players will cut rope, collect stars and pop balloons to feed the beloved green monster with a sweet tooth in this puzzle game featuring physics-based gameplay. For the first time ever, Cut the Rope Daily offers a new puzzle to solve every day. Available exclusively for Netflix members."

Lego Legacy: Heroes Unboxed

"LEGO Legacy: Heroes Unboxed lets players collect and playfully battle with more than 50 characters from over 40 years of LEGO minifigure history. Bringing together characters old and new, this game gives LEGO fans a new way to play with the characters that they know and love. Build imaginative sets and assemble a team of familiar faces — from Hot Dog Man to Princess Argenta and more — to immerse yourself in a world full of action in this strategic battle RPG. Available exclusively for Netflix members."

Paper Trail

"Paper Trail is a top-down puzzle adventure about leaving home, set in a paper world. Players must fold their way through a diverse, populated paper universe. As players progress, new gameplay opportunities emerge, enhanced by the folding mechanics. Featuring fun and engaging characters and beautiful worlds to explore, this indie gem has already won more than 10 awards. Available exclusively on mobile for Netflix members. Also coming to Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5 & 4, PC, and Xbox Series X|S."

Are you excited to check out any of these? Let us know which ones in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Oxenfree II: Lost Signals

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Paper Trail

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

