
  NetherRealm Releases New Mortal Kombat 1 Keepers Of Time Trailer, Reveals Playable Geras 






            NetherRealm Studios has released a new Mortal Kombat 1 trailer focused on the Keepers of Time and Geras, a Mortal Kombat 11 debut character returning as a playable fighter. 

The Mortal Kombat studio has released a steady flow of trailers and gameplay since its MK1 reveal back in May, and that continued over the weekend with a new showcase on the Keepers of Time faction and sand-wielding warrior Geras. In it, we get new looks at Liu Kang, including a new fatality for him, and Geras. 

You can check out the MK1 Keepers of Time trailer for yourself below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Over the weekend, MK1 director Ed Boon tweeted an image with what many think might be a new character debuting in the game. Boon writes, “New phone. Who dis?” and circles the unknown character, leading many to believe it’s a tease of a new fighter.

New phone. Who dis? pic.twitter.com/lQa5cyrudA
— Ed Boon (@noobde) July 29, 2023

For more about MK1, watch this gameplay premiere from over the summer and then read our preview thoughts on the game after going hands-on with it for a few matches. Watch the Smoke and Rain reveal trailer after that, and then check out Game Informer’s MK1 New Gameplay Today. 

Are you excited for Geras? Let us know in the comments below!

Editor's Note: This story previously stated that two new Mortal Kombat 1 trailers were released over the weekend and linked to a Geras trailer for Mortal Kombat 11. It has been updated to reflect that only one trailer was released – the Keepers of Time trailer – which reveals Geras as a playable fighter. 

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

