
  New Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero Trailer Reveals 24 New Fighters, And They're All Goku And Vegeta






            Publisher Bandai Namco and developer Spike Chunsoft Co., Ltd. have revealed 24 fighters for Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero, and they're all Goku and Vegeta. Unsurprisingly, considering Goku and Vegeta are the two main characters in the Dragon Ball Z saga (amongst others like Gohan, for example), Spike Chunsoft is giving players the chance to fight using their various forms. This includes Super Saiyan, Super Saiyan 2, Majin Vegeta, and more. 

Bandai Namco first revealed Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero at The Game Awards 2023 back in December, which is where it was confirmed that, despite the different name, this fighting game is the next Budokai Tenkaichi game in the storied series. We got our first glimpse of gameplay and Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero's flashy fights, but little else beyond that it's coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. Now, thanks to this new trailer, we know of 24 new fighters, with a tease at a massive roster still to be revealed. 

Check out the new Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero trailer for yourself below: 

As you can see in the trailer above, there are plenty of Goku and Vegeta forms to fight as in the game. Here's the full list of fighters revealed: 

Goku (Z - Early)
Goku (Z - Mid)
Goku (Z - Mid), Super Saiyan
Goku (Z - End)
Goku (Z - End), Super Saiyan
Goku (Z - End), Super Saiyan 2
Goku (Z - End), Super Saiyan 3
Goku (Super)
Goku (Z - Mid), Super Saiyan
Goku (Super), Super Saiyan God
Goku (Super), Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan
Vegeta (Z - Scouter)
Great Ape Vegeta
Vegeta (Z - Early)
Vegeta (Z - Early), Super Saiyan
Super Vegeta
Vegeta (Z - End)
Vegeta (Z - End), Super Saiyan
Vegeta (Z - End), Super Saiyan 2
Majin Vegeta
Vegeta (Super)
Vegeta (Super), Super Saiyan
Vegeta (Super), Super Saiyan God
Vegeta (Super), Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan

At the end of the trailer, we see these fighters' avatars in what appears to be a much more massive roster. If our math is correct, the final roster could feature more than 150 different fighters to choose from. But only time will tell. There's still no release date for Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero. 

For more about the game, watch the Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero announcement trailer. 

Are you excited about Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Dragon Ball Sparking! Zero

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

