
  New Mortal Kombat 1 Trailer Confirms Sindel And General Shao As Playable Fighters 






            NetherRealm Studios has released a brand new trailer for Mortal Kombat 1, and it’s one of the wildest ones yet. It confirms that both Sindel and General Shao are playable characters, and we get another look at Liu Kang’s chosen champion, Raiden. 

The trailer begins with a cinematic cutscene setting up the ensuing fight as Liu Kang challenges Sindel to a duel by way of Raiden. It doesn’t take long for the trailer to become a gory mess of blood and guts, though, as we see Sindel, General Shao, and Raiden face off in various fights. The trailer also reveals two additional Kameo fighters: Motaro and Shujinko. 

Check out the Rulers of Outworld Mortal Kombat 1 trailer for yourself below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"As supreme ruler of Outworld’s army, General Shao has proven loyalty to his realm through countless victories in battle and possesses a gameplay style that dominates opponents with conquering strength and iron will," a press release reads. "Sindel is the empress of Outworld who fights to protect her family and empire with the ability to vanquish enemies with her mystifying hair, piercing scream, and power of levitation." 

Mortal Kombat 1 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC on September 19. 

For more about the game, check out this trailer that confirms Reptile, Ashrah, and Havik are on the roster and then watch this Keepers of Time trailer. After that, watch this trailer all about Rain and Smoke and then check out Game Informer’s hands-on Mortal Kombat 1 gameplay after that. 

Who are you going to main in Mortal Kombat 1? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

