
  New Elden Ring Patch Adds Hairstyles, New Inventory Features, Balance Adjustments, And More






            Elden Ring's massive expansion, Shadow of the Erdtree, goes live tomorrow, on June 21, and ahead of its launch, developer From Software has released a patch that adds new hairstyles, inventory options, balance adjustments, and more. It also allows you to summon your Spectral Steed during the game's final fight (which, if you've beaten that boss, you know how helpful your mount would have been during it). 

The patch – V1.12 – is now live on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC (via Steam) and also features hundreds of other changes, like adjustments to weapons, skills, armaments, and general balance-related things. 

The highlight of the patch is all of the new features it adds to Elden Ring, and you can check those out below: 

New Elden Ring Features In Patch V1.12

Added support for the Shadow of the Erdtree DLC.Five new hairstyles have been added to the game. They can be selected during character creation, using the Clouded Mirror Stand or using Rennala's Rebirth feature.
Added "Map Functions Menu" to the Map Menu.
New Summoning Pool features:

Active Summoning Pools will now be carried over to NG+.
Individual Summoning Pools can now be enabled / disabled in the newly added Map Functions Menu.

If "Include Distant Areas" is selected when using the Small Golden Effigy, summoning pools within the Mohgwyn Palace will not be selected for summoning, even if you have activated them.
If you are within the Moghwyn Palace and select “Nearby Only” when using the Small Golden Effigy, you will be able to be summoned within the area.

New Inventory features:

Newly obtained items will be marked with a "!“.
A new tab called "Recent Items" has been added to review recently obtained items.
Display settings can be changed from the Display tab in the system menu.
Added new feature to summon spectral steed during the Elden Beast the boss battle.
Added new feature to the colosseum: crafted consumable items that have been used during a battle will be replenished at the end of your session.
Added support for Arabic language.

 Everything Else Added To Elden Ring In Patch V1.12

Below, we'll list all of the changes, balance adjustments, and more made to to Elden Ring with today's patch. 

Steam-Only New Features

New Keyboard/mouse settings:

Added "lock-on change threshold" setting of mouse controls.
Added a setting to change cursor movement behaviour in the map menu.
Added key assignments to open the map in the Key Settings menu.

PvP-Exclusive Balance Adjustments

The following changes only affect PvP – not cooperative or single player play. 

Weapon Adjustments

After being affected by madness and/or sleep status effects, the status effect build up will be halted for a short period of time.
Increased the poise damage of some attacks against other players of the following weapon types:

Greatswords / Colossal Swords /Curved Greatswords / Greataxes / Hammers / Flails / Great Hammers / Colossal Weapons / Great Spears / Halberds

Ajusted poise damage of some dual wield attacks against other players by of the following weapon types:

Greatswords / Axes / Great Axes / Hammers / Great Hammers / Halberds / Reapers

Increased poise damage against other players from dual wielded attacks of the following weapon types:

Axes / Hammers / Halberds / Reapers

Increased poise damage of Axes against other players
Decreased the damage of dual wield attacks against other players of all weapon types.
Decreased the poise damage of some attacks against other players of the following weapon types:

Daggers / Straight Swords / Thrusting Swords / Heavy Thrusting Swords / Curved Swords / Katanas / Twinblades / Axes / Spears / Reapers / Whips / Fists / Claws

Decreased the Poise value of some attack motions against other players of the following weapon types:

Greatswords / Colossal Swords / Curved Greatswords / Greataxes / Hammers / Flails / Great Hammers / Colossal Weapons / Great Spears / Halberds

Decreased the damage of some attacks against other players for the Heavy Thrusting Swords weapon type.
Decreased the damage of dual wield attacks against other players for the following weapon types:

Spears / Great Spears

Decreased the damage animation motion of the following weapon types when another player is stunned by a two-handed heavy running attack:

Fists / Claws

Decreased the effects of "Baldachin's Blessing" and "Radiant Baldachin's Blessing" to increase the Poise value and Physical damage negation in PvP.

Skill Adjustments

Spinning Slash: Decreased damage
Flaming Strike: Decreased damage
Rain of Arrows: Decreased damage and poise damage
Cursed-Blood Slash: Decreased damage
Transient Moonlight: Decreased damage
Lightning Storm: Decreased poise damage
Spearcall Ritual: Decreased poise damage
Ancient Lightning Spear: Decreased damage
Radahn's Rain: Decreased damage and poise damage
Spinning Weapon: Decreased damage animation motion when stunning other players

Incantation Adjustments

Black Flame's Protection: Decreased physical block rate
Bestial Sling: Decreased poise damage

General Balance Adjustments

The following adjustments affect both PvE and PvP in Elden Ring. 

Adjusted turning speed when using dual wielded Heavy Thrusting Swords.
Increased Dexterity scaling when assigning Ashes of War with corresponding weapon Affinities.
Increased Stamina consumption when guarding against attacks of the following weapon types:

Greatswords / Curved Greatswords / Great Axes / Great Hammers

Increased the speed of some attacks of the following weapon types:

Axes / Greataxes / Hammers / Flails / Reapers

Increased the damage of charged attacks of the following weapon types:

Axes / Greataxes / Some Colossal Weapons

Increased the turning speed of normal attacks of the Reapers weapon type.
Increased damage of the Whips weapon type, except the "Ulmi" Whip.
Increased the speed of consecutive attacks for the following weapon types:

Light Bows / Long Bows

Increased the poise damage of the Torches weapon type.
Increased the duration of the effect of Mohg’s Great Rune that increases the attack power when a bleeding status effect is triggered by a nearby summoned spirit.
Decreased the heal amount reduction from the Flask of Crimson Tears and increased the heal on attack effect when using Malenia’s Great Rune.
Increased the attack power of Arrows, Greatarrows, Bolts, and Greatbolts that can be crafted through Item Crafting.
Decreased the turning speed of dual wielded weapons for the following weapon types:

Spears / Great Spears

Decreased poise generation speed during some attacks of the following weapon types:

Great Spears / Halberd Spears

Decreased the effect that increases the power of spells of Terra Magica.
Decreased the effect duration of the Cerulean Hidden Tear.

Armament Adjustments

Troll Knight's Sword: Increased damage
Zamor Curved Sword: Increased damage; Increased movement distance of some attacks
Forked Hatchet: Increased damage
Ripple Blade: Decreased the status buildup enhancement that scales with the Arcane attribute
Serpent-Hunter: Increased the speed of crouching attacks
Ripple Crescent Halberd: Decreased the status buildup enhancement that scales with the Arcane attribute
Albinauric Staff: Increased attribute scaling
Gelmir Glintstone Staff: Increased attribute scaling
Prince of Death's Staff: Increased attribute scaling
Golden Order Seal: Increased attribute scaling
Clawmark Seal: Increased attribute scaling
Dragon Communion Seal: Increased attribute scaling

Skill Adjustments

Kick: Increased the poise amount when using this skill
Spinning Slash: Decreased the status buildup of your weapon when using this skill
Storm Assault: Decreased the poise generation speed
Stormcaller: Decreased the poise generation speed
Storm Stomp: Decreased the poise generation speed
Glintblade Phalanx: Decreased poise damage
Loretta's Slash: Decreased the poise generation speed
Bloody Slash: Decreased the poise generation speed
Strong shot: Increased the speed of some attacks
Sky Shot: Increased the speed when doing consecutive attacks
Enchanted Shot: Increased the speed of some attacks
Parry: Increased Parry hitbox generation speed
Storm Wall: Increased Parry hitbox generation speed
Thops's Barrier: Increased Parry hitbox generation speed
Buckler Parry: Added attack recovery time after using this skill
Taker's Flames: Decreased the fire’s poise damage; Removed the fire’s knocking down effect
Moonlight Greatsword: Increased the poise damage of heavy and charged attacks, but decreased the poise damage of the generated magic wave
Thundercloud Form: Decreased poise damage
Magma Shower: Decreased the poise generation speed
Thunderstorm: Decreased damage
Bubble Shower: Decreased damage and poise damage
I Command Thee, Kneel!: Increased the poise value during the active part of the Skill; Decreased the poise generation speed
Bloodboon Ritual: Decreased the generated status buildup
Loretta's Slash: Decreased the poise generation speed
Bear Witness!: Increased damage and poise damage
Contagious Fury: Decreased the amount of attack power generated by this skill

Bug Fixes

In the inventory menu, added the amount of FP consumed for Skills in the "Ashes of War" display information.
Reduced the time it takes for some gestures to become cancelable by rolling.
Adjusted the input speed in some menus, such as conversation menus, to prevent accidental skips.
Fixed a bug that caused damage to the player and friendly summons when using the "Last Rites" Skill under specific circumstances.
Fixed a bug that caused higher than expected poise damage when performing left-handed attacks with Thrusting Swords.
Fixed a bug with Spinning Slash Skill that generated poise when used with Twinblades.
Fixed a bug in The Queen's Black Flame Skill that did not apply poise when using this skill.
Fixed a bug where the characteristics of some weapons were not working properly against mounted enemies.
Fixed a bug that caused a Bleed buildup when using the Spinning Strikes Skill while under the effect of the Bloodflame Blade Skill, even if the attack did not hit the enemy.
Fixed a bug that caused some Skill to perform incorrectly when specific actions were performed.
Fixed a bug that caused unexpected behaviors when some incantations were used in quick succession.
Fixed a bug where the spectral steed did not trigger a death fall under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug that prevented players from getting hit by other players under certain circumstances in Multiplayer.
Fixed a bug in the Colosseum that allowed Critical hits against players in specific death animations.
Fixed a bug where the Mimic’s Veil effect was not properly reflected to other players under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug that caused other players summoned as hunters to immediately return after being summoned under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug in Multiplayer where some spirits could be locked on even after they disappeared.
Improved Multiplayer stability under certain circumstances
Fixed a bug that caused specific maps to render differently than expected under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug where the damage of some equipped weapons were incorrectly displayed in various menus.
Fixes a bug that prevented marking sites of Grace in the map menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug where item names and the cursor were not displayed correctly in the inventory menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed a bug where event actions were available while being in the map menu.
Fixed a bug in the map menu that caused specific terrains to be displayed differently from the actual terrain.

Are you hopping into Shadow of the Erdtree tomorrow? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

