
  Nier Creator Yoko Taro Reportedly Teases Nier 3 At Series Orchestra Concert






            Nier series creator Yoko Taro reportedly teased a third Nier game during the Nier: Orchestra Concert earlier this month. As reported by Eurogamer, during the concert, which celebrated the Nier series' music in London, Taro apparently made a surprise appearance and asked for people to clap and cheer as loudly as they could so that Square Enix president Takashi Kiryu – in attendance – could hear the demand for more Nier, according to one fan at the event. 

However, the biggest tease of the night came from an on-screen word that appeared multiple times throughout "the story of the show," SanTheSly, the fan in attendance, writes on ResetEra. 

"[The] word REPENT was shown repeatedly as part of some dialogue," SanTheSly writes. "The final instance was spelled as R3PENT. Both me and the person I'd gone with picked up on it and wondered if this was a tease." 

That sounds like a tease to us; otherwise, why else change the word "repent" to randomly feature a "3." However, some fans of the series already consider Nier Reincarnataion, a mobile gacha game shutting down in April, to be the third game in the series. On that timeline, Nier (and its remastered Nier: Replicant counterpart) is the first in the franchise and Nier: Automata the second. If Nier Reincarnation isn't the true third Nier game, perhaps Taro was teasing that could be on the way – Nier Repent does have a nice ring to it. 

[Source: Eurogamer]

Do you want a third Nier game? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Nier Replicant ver. 1.22474487139

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

April 23, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Nier: Automata

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 7, 2017 (PlayStation 4, PC), June 26, 2018 (Xbox One), October 6, 2022 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

