
  Ninja Theory Co-Founder, Hellblade Director Tameem Antoniades No Longer At Studio






            Ninja Theory co-founder and Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice writer and director Anteem Antoniades has left the company. This news comes from a new Polygon preview of Ninja Theory's upcoming release, Senua's Saga: Hellblade II, which hits Xbox Series X/S and PC on May 21, as reported by VideoGamesChronicle. 

Polygon noticed during a hands-on preview of Hellblade II at Ninja Theory's Cambridge, U.K.-based studio that there was no trace of Antoniades. A spokesperson for Xbox confirmed later that Antoniades was no longer working at Ninja Theory.

"On my visit, there was no sign or mention of Ninja Theory's flamboyant founder and Hellblade writer-director Tameem Antoniades," Polygon writes in its Hellblade II preview. "An Xbox spokesperson later confirmed to Polygon that he is no longer with the studio. Antoniades was involved in Hellblade 2 in the early stages, but the game now has a trio of creative leads: environment art director Dan Attwell, visual effects director Mark Slater-Tunstill, and audio director David Garcia." 

Beyond the Hellblade series, Antoniades also worked on Ninja Theory's Heavenly Sword, Enslaved: Odyssey to the West, and DmC: Devil May Cry. 

Hellblade II hits Xbox Series X/S and PC on May 21. 

For more, watch the latest Hellblade II trailer here, and then read about Hellblade II's photo mode and what to expect from it at launch. After that, watch this Hellblade II gameplay trailer. 

[Source: VideoGamesChronicle via Polygon]

Are you picking up Hellblade II on day one next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Senua's Saga: Hellblade II

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

May 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

