
  Nintendo Has Revealed Mario's New Voice Actor






            Nintendo revealed in August that longtime Mario voice actor Charles Martinet would no longer be voicing Mario. Amongst speculation of a different voice actor for Mario in Super Mario Bros. Wonder trailers, Nintendo also announced Martinet was not jumpman's voice in the game, leaving fans to wonder who the new voice is. After months of internet sleuthing, guesswork, and more, Nintendo has confirmed that Genshin Impact voice actor Kevin Afghani is the new voice of Mario. 

"The voice actor's name is Kevin Afghani," Nintendo tells Game Informer in a statement.

Afghani celebrated the news with a tweet today about how excited he is to voice both Mario and Luigi in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. 

"Incredibly proud to have voiced Mario and Luigi in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Thanks to Nintendo for inviting me into the Flower Kingdom."

Incredibly proud to have voiced Mario and Luigi in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Thanks to Nintendo for inviting me into the Flower Kingdom!
— Kevin Afghani (@KevinAfghani) October 13, 2023

Afghani's credits include Arnold in the aforementioned Genshin Impact, Raditz in Dragon Ball R&R, and Short Detective, General, and Grunt in the Secret History of Cuphead short.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder hits Switch exclusively on October 20. Ahead of its release, Mario graced the cover of the latest issue of Game Informer, and we've been diving deep into the making of the game and more in our exclusive Super Mario Bros. Wonder coverage hub. Here are some of the stories you can find in it: 

Super Mario Bros. Wonder And Sonic Superstars Devs Talk About Releasing Their Games The Same Week
Nintendo Talks How Mario And Zelda Have Stayed Relevant For Nearly 40 Years
Nintendo On The Legacy Of The New Super Mario Bros. Series
How Super Mario Bros. Wonder's Developers Created The Games Unique Power-Ups 

Have you enjoyed Afghani's Mario voice in Super Mario Bros. Wonder trailers released so far? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

