
  Nintendo Says It Will Reveal Switch Successor By March 2025, But Not At The Direct Next Month






            Nintendo will reveal the Switch successor within the current fiscal year, which ends March 31, 2025. However, the company says there will be no mention of this successor during a Nintendo Direct it is holding in June; this Direct will instead be focused on the games coming to Switch in the second half of 2024. 

While this isn't the first hint of a Switch successor from the company, it is the most direct and comes from the same financial results where we learned the Switch has sold an additional 1.96 million units since the last one, bringing its total up to 141.32 million. Software has reached 1.235 billion units. 

"This is Furukawa, President of Nintendo," the company's announcement reads on X (formerly Twitter). "We will make an announcement about the successor to Nintendo Switch within this fiscal year. It will have been over nine years since we announced the existence of Nintendo Switch back in March 2015. We will be holding a Nintendo Direct this June regarding the Nintendo Switch software lineup for the latter half of 2024, but please be aware that there will be no mention of the Nintendo Switch successor during that presentation."

This announcement follows industry reports from earlier this year stating the Switch successor was targeting a March 2025 release date. That could still be the case given Furukawa's reveal, but given the timeline, Nintendo could also announce the successor that month, meaning we likely wouldn't have it in our hands until later that year. Only time will, though, but at least we now officially know that by this time next year, we'll know what the successor to the Switch is. 

For more, read about how Nintendo reportedly demoed the Switch successor to developers at Gamescom last year, and then check out Game Informer's top 10 Switch games. 

What do you hope to see from the Switch successor? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Nintendo Switch

Release Date:

March 3, 2017

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

