
  Nintendo Indie World Showcase Set For Tomorrow With 20 Minutes Of Announcements And Updates






            Nintendo has announced that it will air an Indie World Showcase tomorrow morning. It will feature 20 minutes of new announcements and updates on previously announced indie comes coming to the Switch. 

More specifically, the next Indie World Showcase will air at 9 a.m. PT/Noon ET tomorrow, on November 14. As usual, Nintendo kept the announcement of this showcase light on details – all we know is that it's set to run for roughly 20 minutes with both new announcements and updates to games we already know about. 

A new @IndieWorldNA Showcase is airing tomorrow, Nov. 14 at 9:00 a.m. PT! Tune in for roughly 20 minutes of new announcements and updates on indie games coming to #NintendoSwitch. #IndieWorld

Watch it live here: https://t.co/z39Mhr4n0K pic.twitter.com/2L7jUwk9eP
— Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) November 13, 2023

As with every Indie World Showcase, the question must be asked: is this the time where we finally see Hollow Knight: Silksong, the Hollow Knight sequel from developer Team Cherry that began life as a DLC to the original game? It probably won't be but it's always fun to get your hopes up a little bit so that they may be gently crushed. 

Tomorrow's Indie World Showcase for Nintendo Switch begins at Noon ET. 

In the meantime, read Game Informer's Hollow Knight review and then check out everything announced during the last Indie World Showcase, which was held in April, for a glance at what to potentially expect with tomorrow's. 

What game do you hope to see tomorrow during the Nintendo Indie World Showcase? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Nintendo Switch

Release Date:

March 3, 2017

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

