
  Nintendo Reveals Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Switch OLED Bundle, New Mario Joy-Con






            With Black Friday and the holidays upon us, Nintendo has pulled back the curtains on its retail plans for the shopping season and they include a new Super Smash Bros. Ultimate-themed Switch OLED bundle and two new Joy-Con colors. 

Starting November 19, select retailers and Nintendo's own store will begin offering a new Super Smash Bros. Ultimate bundle that includes a Switch OLED model, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate-themed Joy-Con, and the full Super Smash Bros. Ultimate game download. This bundle also includes a 3-month individual membership to Nintendo Switch Online and will retail for $349.99, which represents roughly $70 saved compared to if everything was purchased individually. 

Check out the Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Switch OLED bundle below: 

Alongside this Switch bundle, Nintendo has also unveiled a new Super Mario Party bundle that includes special Red and Blue Joy-Con controllers. This bundle will be available starting November 10 and will retail for $99.99, which is roughly $40 in savings compared to if everything was purchased individually. 

Check out the Super Mario Party + Joy-Con bundle below: 

Elsewhere in Nintendo's holiday plans, starting November 19, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Luigi's Mansion 3, Xenoblade Chronicles 3, and Super Mario Odyssey will be discounted up to $20 off, retailing at $39.99. Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, Kirby's Return to Dream Land Deluxe, and Minecraft Legends: Deluxe Edition will have their price dropped to $29.99, and Everybody 1-2-Switch will be $19.99. 

For more, read Game Informer's Super Mario Party review and then read our thoughts on Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. After that, check out these new Animal Crossing: New Horizons-themed Switch Lite systems, and then read our review of WarioWare: Move It. 

Are you interested in any of these deals? Let us know which ones in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

December 7, 2018

Purchase
More Info

Super Mario Party

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 5, 2018

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

