
  Nintendo Switch Surpasses 140 Million Units Sold 






            Nintendo has revealed the Switch has surpassed 140 million units sold, further securing its current place as the second-best-selling console in the company's history. This news arrives at the same time Nintendo has revealed it will announce the Switch successor by March 2025, meaning there's still some time for the Switch to catch up to Nintendo's best-selling console: the Nintendo DS. 

Since the last financial results call, the Switch has sold an additional 1.96 million units, bringing its grand total up to 141.32. That keeps it in second place, only behind the Nintendo DS' massive 154.02 million. It's possible the Switch surpasses the Nintendo DS, especially considering the Switch will likely continue to sell even once its successor is released, but that's a big 13 million-unit gap to close. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Elsewhere in the financial results, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom has hit 20.28 million units sold, Super Mario Bros. Wonder has sold through 11.96 million, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe another 6.79 million, and Pikmin 4 3.33 million. The fiscal year ending with March 2024 was a strong one for Switch software, selling 163.95 million units in Q1 through Q3 of Fiscal Year 2024. However, compared to the same quarters for Fiscal Year 2023, Switch software is down 4.7%. 

With the Switch successor on the horizon, that number will likely be way up this time next year. 

In the meantime, read about the Nintendo Direct happening next month, and then check out Game Informer's top 10 Switch games. After that, check out this list of the Switch's best-selling games. 

Do you think the Switch will surpass the Nintendo DS? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Nintendo Switch

Release Date:

March 3, 2017

Purchase
More Info

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

