
  Ori Team Moon Studios Reveals Action RPG, No Rest For The Wicked






            Moon Studios, the team behind Ori and the Blind Forest and Ori and the Will of the Wisps, has revealed No Rest for the Wicked, its first action RPG. It will be released as an Early Access title on Steam sometime during the first quarter of 2024 before it later releases onto PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S. 

No Rest for the Wicked features a hand-crafted world with a painterly art style. In it, players explore an island called Isola Sacra, spelunking through cavernous depths, lush forests, treacherous mountain passes, and more, according to publisher Private Division. Each location on Isola Sacra is home to protagonists "with their own problems," a press release reads, as well as hidden treasures, creatures, and secrets. 

Check out the No Rest for the Wicked reveal trailer for yourself below: 

Moon Studios says fights in the game are animation-driven, direct, and tactile, "allowing skilled players to combine visceral strikes and deadly moves." No Rest for the Wicked prioritizes skill and timing over button-mashing, according to the team. 

"We have been dreaming of being able to contribute to the [action RPG] genre that we all grew up with and love," Moon Studios co-founder and creative director Thomas Mahler writes in a press release. "After the success of Ori, it was clear to us that Moon was now mature enough to finally realize those dreams. We can't wait to see how players will react to this entirely new take on the genre." 

Here's more about the game, straight from Moon Studios and Private Division: 

"In the year 841, a pivotal moment dawns upon the kingdom, marked by the passing of King Harol Bolein. A devastating conflict arises when a peaceful transition of power devolves into chaos.  In addition to this political turmoil, a deadly plague has reemerged on the remote island of Sacra, twisting the land and its inhabitants. Players must brandish their arms in an effort to quell both the grotesque beasts and the Kingdom’s invading army throughout a turbulent atmosphere where they are pulled in every direction."

Outside of the single-player experience, No Rest for the Wicked's multiplayer mode allows players to share their world and progress with up to three friends at their side in the campaign's online co-op. Every quest, boss, and hidden secret is shared with those you play with. 

While No Rest for the Wicked's debut at The Game Awards 2023 was nice, Moon Studios fans can watch the Wicked Inside digital showcase airing on March 1, 2024, for additional information about the game. 

What do you think of No Rest for the Wicked's debut? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

No Rest for the Wicked

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

April 18, 2024 (PC), TBA (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

