
  Outer Terror Is Like Vampire Survivors Meets Pulp Action Horror | New Gameplay Today






            In today's New Gameplay Today, your hosts Wesley LeBlanc and Kyle Hilliard jump into Outer Terror, an upcoming pulp action-horror game coming to PC sometime soon. 

The two discuss the game's visual style, how it plays, its similarities to Vampire Survivors, and everything else going on in this exclusive preview. This demo build features a small snippet of one of the game's five volumes and our gameplay showcases how the on-screen action works, the horrors from beyond, and how quests work in Outer Terror. 

Check out Outer Terror for yourself below in this installment of New Gameplay Today: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

As you can see, Outer Terror is shaping up to be a great time, perfect for those moments where you've got 10 or 15 minutes to blitz through hordes of the undead, monsters from beyond, and more. For more about Outer Terror and what to expect from the game, check out our coverage of the game from last month. 

Outer Terror hits PC via Steam and the VoxPop Games Store (with exclusive content on that storefront, too), but a release date has not yet been revealed. 

For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for NGTs about Save Room, Pokemon Scarlet, Resident Evil Village: Shadows of Rose, Persona 5 Royal on Switch, Scorn, LEGO Bricktales, God of War Ragnarok, Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, Saturnalia, Betrayal at Club Low, and more.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Outer Terror

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

April 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

