
  Palworld's Early Access Roadmap Includes PvP, Raid Bosses, Crossplay, And More






            Developer Pocketpair has shared the Early Access roadmap for its hit "Pokémon with guns" survival game, Palworld, alongside news that the game crossed 7 million copies sold in just five days. For reference, it took Marvel's Spider-Man 2, a PlayStation 5-exclusive game starring arguably the most popular superhero in the world, 11 days to cross the 5 million mark. This roadmap includes PvP, raid bosses and other endgame content, Steam-Xbox crossplay, bug fixes, additional features, and more. 

If you've managed to dodge the discussion around Palworld, which has taken the internet, Steam, and Xbox by storm, Game Informer has a great primer for you to read right here. And if you don't know what the game looks like in action yet, check out Game Informer's recent Palworld stream below: 

Palworld Early Access Roadmap

Pocketpair starts its roadmap post out by first stating sales of Palworld have far exceeded the team's expectations and that the game is currently experiencing many problems due to "excessive access congestion," among other challenges. The game was so popular at launch this past weekend that the studio had to have an emergency meeting with the Epic Games' Online Services team to resolve connectivity issues and errors players were encountering. Pocketpair says it is prioritizing congestion and connection issues first before moving on to implementing new features in Palworld. 

Here are the critical issues Pocketpair is addressing first: 

Numerous bugs the team has already identified 
Sometimes, the world date may experience rollbacks
The loading screen may persist when trying to load into worlds
And here are the planned future updates for Palworld the team is working on: 

PvP
Raid bosses (endgame content)
Pal Arena (PvP for Pals, specifically)
Steam-Xbox crossplay
Various Xbox feature improvements 
Server transfers and migrations
Improvements to the building system
New islands, Pals, bosses, and technologies 

As for when to expect these content updates, Pocketpair is not yet ready to share. It addresses the bugs and errors it deems "critical issues" before working on planned future updates. 

Pocketpair hit Early Access on Steam and Xbox (and it's available on Xbox and PC Game Pass, too) last week and has since become a hit phenomenon that's hard to ignore. For more about the game, check out Game Informer's breakdown of all things Palworld, and then read Game Informer's behind-the-scenes feature about the game. Watch our Palworld gameplay here after that. 

Have you been playing Palworld? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Palworld

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

