
  Pathfinder: Wrath Of The Righteous' Fifth DLC, Lord Of Nothing, Hits PC And Consoles In November






            Developer Owlcat Games has revealed Lord of Nothing, the fifth DLC for Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous. It picks up right where the Through the Ashes DLC left off and launches on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC in November. 

More specifically, Lord of Nothing hits consoles and PC on November 21. This DLC takes players to brand new locations, introduces new characters, and tasks players with taking down new foes. It continues the story of Sendri and Rekarth, and where we last saw them in the Through the Ashes DLC, too. 

Check out the Lord of Nothing DLC trailer for Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous for yourself below: 

"As more pieces of the mystery behind Sendri's behavior appear amongst the unforgiving lands of ice and darkness, more and more dangerous enemies and creatures will emerge from the evil overtaking Golarion," a press release reads. "But not all hope is lost, for a new companion, strange new allies, and even the intervention of the Commander, the player's avatar from the main storyline, will guide the adventurers toward the truth and all that comes with it." 

Owlcat says Lord of Nothing introduces Penta, a new android companion capable of using their enhancing skill to forge a path forward, to the party. Penta will be important as players make their way through the frozen realm to explore a mysterious wizard tower, the Shadow Plane, and more. Outside of the DLC's story, Lord of Nothing brings with it 15 new archetypes, spells, feats, and more. 

Here are some screenshots from Lord of Nothing: 

For the uninitiated, Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous is an "isometric story-driven RPG where players take their own custom-created characters into the Worldwound to close the rift into the Abyss and bring peace back to a shattered nation." You can get a glimpse of that in this Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous trailer. The game features 25 classes, 12 player races, plenty of magic and abilities, and more. Lord of Nothing is the fifth of six total planned DLCs for Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous. 

Are you going to check out Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous' Lord of Nothing DLC? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 2, 2021 (PC), September 29, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

