
  Pearl Abyss Releases New Crimson Desert Gameplay Trailer 






            Pearly Abyss, the studio behind Black Desert Online, has released a new trailer for its upcoming single-player open-world RPG, Crimson Desert, and it features our first look at new gameplay since 2020. 

The studio released this trailer as part of Geoff Keighley’s Opening Night Live presentation for Gamescom, and it features new 4K footage of protagonist Kliff investigating the region of Hernand. It also highlights various other areas in this sprawling open world, NPCs, and more. And, of course, it features a healthy dose of the game’s hand-to-hand combat and wrestling-inspired moves. 

Check out the Crimson Desert gameplay trailer for yourself below: 

Sorry, this video is not available

As you can see in the trailer above, we also see some of the game's traversal, including skydiving, Kliff climbing up buildings and trees, and more. We also see some minigames featured in Crimson Desert, like fishing, arm-wrestling, and the one that occurs when trying to tame wild horses. 

“Developed on Pearl Abyss’ proprietary next-generation ‘BlackSpace Engine,’ Crimson Desert is an open world action-adventure game,” a press release reads. “With an engaging setting and realistic characters, Crimson Desert depicts the story of mercenaries fighting for survival on the expansive continent of Pywel.” 

Pearl Abyss says it aims for a simultaneous global release of Crimson Desert on PC and console. While the studio’s CEO, Jin-Young Heo, stated earlier this year the game was targeting a fall 2023 release window, there’s still no word on when to expect it to launch. 

For more about the game, check out the Crimson Desert gameplay debut trailer and then find out why it’s on our list of the top 10 upcoming action games.

Are you excited about Crimson Desert? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Crimson Desert

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

