
  Penny's Big Breakaway: Watch Someone Beat The First Level With A Single 2-Minute Combo






            Penny's Big Breakaway, the momentum-based 3D platformer from developer Evening Star, surprise launched earlier this week after appearing in a Partner Showcase Nintendo Direct. During a livestream held by Evening Star on the game's February 21 launch, one designer completed the first level with a single, two-minute combo, and it's a feat to behold. 

If you haven't yet checked out Penny's Big Breakaway, it's a 3D platformer modeled off the strange and weird platformers of the PlayStation 1 generation, rather than Nintendo's popular platforming efforts. As such, the game features a unique moveset that feels similar to Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, with a Devil May Cry combo meter to boot. 

Check out the Evening Star developer reach a massive 191-move combo in the first stage of Vanillatown, the first world in Penny's Big Breakaway, below: 

Vanillatown 1-1 100% in just 1 combo!?

Done by one of our level designers, Milena, during yesterday's livestream. #PennysBigBreakaway pic.twitter.com/F7kIiAjldU
— Evening Star (@EveningStarStdo) February 22, 2024

As you can see, this designer – Milena – completes the first level with one continuous combo. We're not sure we're quite up to the task but we wouldn't be surprised if fans of the game spend time outcomboing this score. Only time will tell. 

Penny's Big Breakaway is now available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC. 

For more about the game, check out the Penny's Big Breakaway launch trailer here and then read Game Informer's exclusive behind-the-scenes feature about the game's creation, the people making it, the music, and more. 

Are you playing Penny's Big Breakaway? Let us know what you think of it so far in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Penny's Big Breakaway

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

February 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

