
  Persona 5 Royal On Switch | New Gameplay Today






            Your host Wesley LeBlanc discusses Persona 5 Royal, the hugely successful Atlus-developed RPG originally released in 2019 as a new version of the original 2016 Persona 5. After years of hopeful waiting, Persona 5 Royal has finally made its way to Switch, and we've been playing it. 

In today's installment of New Gameplay Today, your host talks about the lasting legacy of Persona 5 Royal, what makes the game so special, and how it looks and feels on Switch. Enjoy nearly 15 minutes of Persona 5 Royal from the game's opening moments (so you don't have to worry about spoilers too much if you haven't played the game elsewhere!). 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Personal 5 Royal hits Switch on October 21, which is the same day the game hits Xbox and PlayStation consoles and PC too. You can check out our thoughts on the game on PlayStation 4 in Game Informer's Persona 5 Royal review. 

For more previews of some of the biggest games of 2022 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for early looks at Scorn, LEGO Bricktales, God of War Ragnarok, Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, Saturnalia, Betrayal at Club Low, and more.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Persona 5 Royal

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 31, 2020 (PlayStation 4), October 21, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Switch, PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

