
  PlayStation Reveals First Look At Concord's 5v5 FPS Gameplay, Out This August On PS5 And PC






            PlayStation has formally revealed Concord, the first game from Firewalk Studios, which it acquired in 2023, and it brings a healthy (and comedic dose) of sci-fi to the console's 2024 lineup. Concord is both the start of a new sci-fi IP for PlayStation and a five-versus-five-player multiplayer shooter coming to PlayStation 5 and PC this year. 

Before showcasing some third-person shooter gameplay, a vignette setting up the game's world and tone played, and it's here we get a look at its Guardians of the Galaxy-esque action. We see several characters who appear to make up the rag-tag group of heroes we'll be controlling, each with seemingly unique abilities, attempting to capture a special device from someone attempting to escape a rundown locale called Crater City. 

Check it out for yourself in the Concord cinematic reveal below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

After this vignette, PlayStation showcased our first look at Concord's gameplay. We get a look at Vale, a sniper, Lennox, a cowboy-esque revolver shooter, Haymar, who uses a magical bow and arrow, Star Child, a brutish shotgun user, and 1-Off, a support character who appears to use support-type elemental moves. The gameplay looks reminiscent of Destiny 2's PvP modes, although brighter in color and more fantastical in visual design. 

Check out the Concord gameplay reveal for yourself below:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

After the gameplay, some of the Firewalk developers spoke about what players can expect, including deployable gear that can exist throughout a full game (across multiple rounds) and asymmetrical match-ups between players. While the gameplay only showcased five characters, a quick look at the game's roster revealed several more. 

Firewalk says every week when you log on to Concord, you'll be treated to a short cutscene vignette teaching you more about the characters. 

Firewalk and PlayStation will hold a beta on PS5 and PC this July before the game's simultaneous launch on those platforms on August 23, 2024. 

What did you think of this Concord reveal? Let us know in the comments below! 

      Products In This Article

Concord

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

August 23, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

