
  PlayStation Potentially Teases Unannounced Game That Might Be New Uncharted In Latest Ad






            Sony has released a new PlayStation add called "Live From PS5" that showcases a few of the console's biggest titles, both past and upcoming, in a fictional news segment, and among the clips are two shots that we don't recognize. And they remind us a lot of Uncharted. 

This fictional news segment highlights the efforts of Spider-Man, Kratos, Ratchet and Clank, the Eikons of the upcoming game, Final Fantasy XVI, and more from other games like Gran Turismo 7 and Returnal. However, amidst the clips, there are two shots that show what appears to be a young woman in a mysterious cave holding a torch as she approaches an ancient relic, as first reported by Video Games Chronicle. 

See if you can spot the clips yourself in the Live From PS5 ad below: 

Did you catch them? In the first clip, this unknown character approaches an ancient relic sitting on a pedestal while holding a torch. She's carrying a large backpack with a rope dangling down from it. We see this character blowing dust and dirt off the ancient relic in the second blink-and-you'll-miss-it shot. Now, an announced PS5 game didn't jump to mind when I saw this, but these two shots combined remind me most of Naughty Dog's Uncharted series. 

Before I speculate, I want to note that in a very recent interview with Buzzfeed, Naughty Dog president Neil Druckmann, who worked on the Uncharted series, said "we're done" and "we're moving on" in regards to the franchise. However, while Naughty Dog might be moving on from Uncharted, it's still a PlayStation IP, which means another studio could continue the franchise. This wouldn't be shocking given where Uncharted 4: A Thief's End leaves us by the time credits roll. 

Spoilers For Uncharted 4: A Thief's End

In the epilogue of Uncharted 4, we meet Cassie Drake, the daughter of Nathan and Elena. In this epilogue, her curiosity gets the best of her and Nathan and Elena tell her of their travels and relic-chasing past. While not confirmed, many fans have speculated that Cassie will follow in her parents' footsteps and become an explorer herself. And if that we're to happen, it would look a lot like the two shots shown in this new Live From PS5 ad. Perhaps that mysterious character in the shots is Cassie Drake. Perhaps it's not. 

Regardless, we don't really know what game those shots are supposed to represent so whether it's a new Uncharted or something else, it seems PlayStation is teasing an unannounced game. 

[Source: Video Games Chronicle]

What do you think those two shots are supposed to be? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Uncharted 4: A Thief's End

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

May 10, 2016

Purchase
More Info

Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection 

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

January 28, 2022 (PlayStation 5), October 19, 2022 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

