
  Playground Games' Fable Gets 2025 Release Window In First Gameplay Trailer






            Fable will launch sometime next year, developer Playground Games has revealed. It did so during today's Xbox Games Showcase with a new trailer that features quick snippets of gameplay starring our heroine. 

In the trailer, we see our hero waltzing through a large medieval town while a narrator discusses an old threat returning to the world. Our hero wants to save Albion, and to do so, she needs to enlist the help of Humphry, who is the one narrarating the trailer. 

While there appears to be gameplay in the trailer, there's no U.I. and no combat – it's mostly just our hero protagonist walking and running through various fantastical locations. We do see some glimpses of combat, but it looks cinematic so it's hard to tell if it's actual combat gameplay. 

Check it out for yourself in the Fable gameplay trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"What does it mean to be a hero," the trailer's description reads. "Humphry, once one of the greatest, will be forced out of retirement when a mysterious figure from his past threatens Albion's very existence." 

Microsoft revealed Fable was coming back in 2020, with a reveal trailer from Forza Horizon developer Playground Games. We then got our next look at the game with a more narrative-focused trailer starring Richard Ayoade last year, and today's new trailer is our first look at the game since then. 

Fable launches on Xbox Series X/S (and presumably PC) in 2025. 

What do think of this new trailer? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fable

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

