
  Pokémon Brilliant Diamond And Shining Pearl: Head To Snowpoint City For A Special Easter Egg Today 






            Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl have been out for a couple of months and while many players have likely already conquered the Elite Four and captured their mascot legendary, there’s still plenty to do in the Sinnoh region remakes. 

For example, today only, you can visit Snowpoint City to witness a fun and classic easter egg. Back in the original Gen IV games, if you visited Snowpoint City on January 12, you’d see “diamond dust” fall all over the town. While the game doesn’t necessarily point it out, it’s an easter egg that nods to Pokémon director and composer, Junichi Masuda, as noted by Eurogamer. You can see the diamond dust in Serebii’s Joe Merrick’s video on Twitter below: 

Today is January 12th and is one of the days you'll see Diamond Dust in Snowpoint City in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond/Shining Pearl.

In addition to that, it's one of the days you get both an encounter and a hatch rate boost: https://t.co/chnnU4GEcB pic.twitter.com/ipHY0FGE4m
— Joe Merrick (@JoeMerrick) January 12, 2022

As Merrick points out, January 12 is not just a good day to see a cool easter egg, but it’s a great day to go searching for rare Pokémon, or attempt to hatch some eggs that require a lot of steps. That’s because in addition to diamond dust, January 12 brings encounter and hatch rate boosts to Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. 

While diamond dust seems quite fantastical, it’s actually rooted in reality – it happens here on Earth. Basically, it’s just tiny ice crystals that fall like snow. Because of the nature of their aesthetic, diamond dust is an apt description. 

Be sure to visit Snowpoint City for a once-a-year easter egg (although diamond dust does fall on other days, today's the only day where it falls in honor of Masuda's birthday). You won’t regret it! For more about these Sinnoh remakes, check out our thoughts on them in Game Informer’s Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl review. If you’re just getting started on your journey, check out these six tips for new trainers in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl and be sure to pick up this Sinnoh Starter mystery gift available until May after that. 

Will you be making a trip to Snowpoint City today? Let us know in the comments below! 

            .

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley has been writing about games professionally for years. When he's not writing about games, he's playing them (hopefully). He desperately wants a PS5 patch for Bloodborne, too, and refuses to give up hope that one's on the way.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Pokémon Brilliant Diamond

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

November 19, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Pokémon Shining Pearl

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

November 19, 2021

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

