
  Princess Peach: Showtime Demo Now Available On Switch






            Princess Peach: Showtime hits Switch exclusively later this month on March 22 and ahead of its launch, Nintendo has released a demo for the game. In it, you can play as two of Peach's transformations: Swordfighter Peach and Patissiere Peach. The demo is available to download on Switch right now. 

"Swing, strike, dodge, and counterattack as Swordfighter Peach and cut across an action-packed stage," a press release reads. "Then, turn into Patissiere Peach and get ready to whip up an array of delectable desserts to prevent the Sweet Festival from experiencing a serious sugar crash." 

Watch Peach transform and take on showstopping abilities to save the Sparkle Theater! The #PrincessPeachShowtime game demo is available on the Nintendo eShop and at select retailers! pic.twitter.com/cgh4kcYZHL
— Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) March 7, 2024

As you can see in the gameplay overview trailer above, each of Peach's transformations grants her distinct and unique abilities that she'll need to save the plays at Sparkle Theater. Plus, the above trailer demonstrates some of the different customization options players have at their disposal to add flair to Peach's dress and Stella's ribbon. 

Princess Peach: Showtime hits Switch on March 22. 

While waiting for its launch, read Game Informer's Princess Peach: Showtime impressions after going hands-on with the game, and then check out these pink Nintendo Switch Joy-Con launching alongside Princess Peach: Showtime. 

Are you going to check out the Princess Peach: Showtime demo? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Princess Peach: Showtime!

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

