
  Princess Peach Showtime Hits Switch This March






            Earlier this summer, Nintendo announced that Princess Peach was getting her own game. At the time, they referred to the project as Untitled Princess Peach Game but during today's Nintendo Direct, the company revealed its official name: Princess Peach Showtime! 

Princess Peach Showtime hits Switch early next year on March 22. Alongside the reveal of the game's name and its release date, Nintendo also shared new details about what to expect. Princess Peach and some Toads took a trip to the Sparkle Theater to see a play. But when the Wicked Grape and the Sour Bunch arrive, it's up to Princess Peach to save the day . 

Check it out for yourself in the Princess Peach Showtime trailer below:

Princess Peach hops onto the stage with the help of Sparkle Theater guardian Stella to take down the Sour Bunch and hopefully, their leader, Wicked Grape. To do that, Princess Peach will have to make her way through a variety of plays, transforming along the way. We see her become Swordfighter Peach, with a Muskateer-esque outfit to go with it. As Swordfighter Peach, she can use a rapier to take down the Sour Bunch and other enemies before her. But that's just one play. 

Today's trailer also revealed Princess Peach will become Detective Peach to determine who is stealing artifacts from a museum. We also see her become Patisserie Peach in an effort to find stolen desserts, and Kung Fu Peach to stop the Sour Bunch from taking over a martial arts school. 

This was just a taste of the transformations that await in Princess Peach Showtime, too. 

Princess Peach Showtime hits Switch on March 22, 2024. 

Are you excited for Princess Peach Showtime? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Princess Peach: Showtime

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

