
  Prince Of Persia: The Lost Crown Gets New Story DLC, Modes, Trials, And More This Year






            Developer Ubisoft Montpellier's excellent metroidvania, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, hit consoles and PC in January, and it's still one of Game Informer's top scoring reviews of the year. You can read Game Informer's Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown review here to find out why we love it so much. Now, Ubisoft is giving players another reason to jump back in with a new post-launch content roadmap. 

What's more, all of the new content coming to the game is set to release throughout the year, starting with new Speedrun and Permadeath modes this month as well as new outfits for Sargon. In spring, a Boss Rush will be released alongside even more outfits for Sargon, and in summer, the Divine Trials update brings new combat, platform, and puzzle challenges as well as new amulets, outfits, and more. All of this will be free, too. 

However, later in 2024, new paid story DLC will hit Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, although Ubisoft offers no teases about what to expect. 

It's an exciting roadmap, doubly so considering the majority of the new content is free. 

For more, read Game Informer's Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown review, and then check out our breakdown of the four ways Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown gets the metroidvania genre right. After that, check out this guide about how to beat Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown's hardest platforming challenge. 

Have you played Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

January 18, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

