
  Ra Ra Boom | New Gameplay Today






            Join Wesley LeBlanc, Marcus Stewart, and Kyle Hilliard as we discuss Ra Ra Boom, an upcoming beat 'em up headed to PC in early 2024. Wesley played through the demo multiple times, using each character to take down AI and robots alike. He, Marcus, and Kyle discuss the game's visual style, use of lanes in combat, fully-voiced characters, and more. 

Enjoy roughly 12 minutes of all new Ra Ra Boom gameplay in the latest NGT below: 

In 2008, Chris Bergman, who later co-founded Gylee Games and now works as its CEO, bought the domain to raraboom.com. Today, that site takes you to the Steam page for Ra Ra Boom, the beat 'em up featured in our latest installment of New Gameplay Today. Gylee Games started work on the game back in 2019, before the resurgence of beat 'em up games, but Bergman is stoked about said resurgence. He calls it a "rising tides raise all ships" scenario. 

After playing through this demo multiple times, I'm excited for Ra Ra Boom's full release. Its inclusion of lanes has fixed my largest problem with beat 'em ups: my inability to properly target and hit enemies. Add in the fully voiced characters, beautiful art style, fun cast of ninja cheerleaders, and an emphasis on story that's somewhat rare in the genre, and I'm ready to smash some robots. 

Ra Ra Boom hits PC early next year.

For more previews and discussions of some of the biggest games of 2023 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for NGTs about Double Dragon Gaiden: Rise of the Dragons, Mortal Kombat 1, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective, Eternights, Bramble: The Mountain King, Humanity, Afterimage, Final Fantasy Pixel Remaster Collection, XDefiant, Sea of Stars, and Star Wars Jedi: Survivor.

Editor's Note: This article has been updated to reflect that Ra Ra Boom will launch early 2024. 

Are you going to check out Ra Ra Boom later this year? Let us know in the comments below!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Ra Ra Boom

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

