
  Racing Survival Game Pacific Drive Delayed To 2024






            Ironwood Studios has delayed Pacific Drive to 2024. 

Initially set to release sometime this year, the team recently announced that it is delaying the game to early 2024, as reported by Eurogamer. As for why, Ironwood Studios says it needs more room to make Pacific Drive the best it can be while also prioritizing the health of everyone on the team. 

As summer comes to a close, we’d like to share that Pacific Drive is moving its release to early 2024.

This decision gives us the room to make Pacific Drive the best it can be, while still prioritizing the health of our team.

(1/4) pic.twitter.com/GXDMC0Katr
— Ironwood Studios | Wishlist Pacific Drive! (@ironwoodtweets) August 19, 2023

“As many know, we’ve been hard at work bringing this idea to life for quite some time, and every day adds even more to a game we’re all proud of,” the studio writes on Twitter. “In this final stretch, however, it’s important to us that we stay true to ourselves, and not compromise on the team’s well-being. 

“As our community grows, the support and excitement everyone has shown has been incredible and we can’t wait for everyone to take their own set of wheels out into the Zone. Everyone here at Ironwood truly appreciates your patience and understanding.”

Ironwood Studios says it has a surprise to share this week, as it will be a part of the Future Games Show with a new trailer. 

The team revealed Pacific Drive in 2022, and after checking out a hands-off preview of the survival game last year, we came away excited about its potential. It mixes elements of racing with the survival genre alongside a spooky Pacific Northwest setting that we can’t wait to see more of. You can read our Pacific Drive preview thoughts here. 

Are you going to check out Pacific Drive next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Pacific Drive

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

February 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

