
  Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City Might Be Getting A Sequel






            2021's Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City blended together the stories of the first Resident Evil game and its sequel, Resident Evil 2 (which received a fantastic remake in 2019), and while it wasn't a complete knockout hit, some have been asking for a sequel. It seems one might be on the way. 

According to a new report on Sudbury.com, a news organization that covers the Greater Sudbury area in Canada, which is where Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City was filmed, Sudbury is receiving an $11 million injection from the provincial government, as reported by PCGamesN. This government is funding 20 local projects through the Northern Ontario Heritage Fund Corporation and while a sequel to Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City hasn't officially been named as one of those 20 projects, there is one called "Umbrella Chronicles," and it's receiving $2 million. 

If you're familiar with the Resident Evil series, you know "Umbrella Chronicles" is likely a nod to The Umbrella Chronicles spinoff game. Add in that the film company behind "Umbrella Chronicles" is Raccoon HG Film Productions, the same company behind Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City, and the picture gets a little clearer: we might be getting a sequel. 

It's important to note this isn't an official confirmation of a sequel. Perhaps Raccoon HG Film Productions is making a different Resident Evil movie unattached to Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City. Only time will tell. 

In the meantime, watch our interview with two of the 2021 film's stars and then check out this featurette from Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City with some behind-the-scenes details. 

[Source: Sudbury.com via PCGamesN]

Do you want a sequel to Resident Evil: Welcome To Raccoon City? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 4 (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

March 24, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), TBA (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

