
  Rockstar Set To Release First Trailer For Grand Theft Auto 6 Next Month 






            Rockstar Games will release the first trailer for its highly anticipated sequel to 2013's Grand Theft Auto V, which became the most profitable entertainment product of all time in 2018, next month. As of August, Grand Theft Auto V has sold more than 185 million copies since its release 10 years ago. 

Official news of this trailer from the Rockstar Twitter account comes less than a day after a Bloomberg report that states Rockstar will reveal the sequel, presumably titled Grand Theft Auto VI or Grand Theft Auto 6, this week with a trailer for it arriving sometime next month; Since the release of this report yesterday, Rockstar has confirmed a trailer for the next Grand Theft Auto will, in fact, be released in December. 

We are very excited to let you know that in early December, we will release the first trailer for the next Grand Theft Auto. We look forward to many more years of sharing these experiences with all of you.

Thank you,
Sam Houser
— Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames) November 8, 2023

Game Informer has reached out to Rockstar's parent company Take-Two Interactive to ask about this report and reveal and will update the story if more information is learned. 

The journey to the reveal of the next Grand Theft Auto has not happened quietly. In September of last year, unprecedented leaks gave fans a potential look at the sequel in over 90 videos showcasing secret in-development footage of the open-world crime sequel.  We also learned last year that the game reportedly stars a female protagonist. Bloomberg says this Grand Theft Auto V sequel is set in a fictional version of Miami and features the aforementioned female protagonist as well as a male protagonist. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

While waiting to learn more about Rockstar's next game, read Game Informer's Grand Theft Auto V review and then read our thoughts on Red Dead Redemption II. After that, read Game Informer's ranking of every single Rockstar game. 

What do you want to see most in the next Grand Theft Auto? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Grand Theft Auto V

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

September 17, 2013 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), November 18, 2014 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), April 14, 2015 (PC), March 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

