
  Sega Of America Employees File For Unionization






            Update, 4/26/23:

Game Informer reached out to Sega of America for comment regarding this union filing by 144 employees on April 24, 2023. We received a letter today that Sega of America president and COO Ian Curran first sent to all Sega of America employees this morning. You can read it, in full, below: 

Dear Team Sega,

We received word yesterday that a petition has been filed with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) by various SOA employees seeking union representation. Union matters are new to me and SOA and we are investigating and considering the options available to the company. As I understand it, the petition filing means that the NLRB will conduct a secret ballot election several weeks down the road for employees who are in specific job classifications to be determined by the NLRB. These employees will be voting for or against union representation.

Some of you may support unionization and some not. That is your legal right. No SOA employee will be treated any differently whether they support or do not support unionization. We have a wonderful culture at SOA with a strong commitment to working together as a team. In my mind, it is the SOA employee culture that makes us such a successful company.

We will be updating you regularly so that you’re fully informed, understand what you can expect and what the NLRB process is about. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to Human Resources. We want all of your questions answered.

Thank you all for your continued efforts.

The original story continues below...

Original Story, 4/24/23:

Employees within Sega of America have filed for unionization. 

Today, The Verge broke the news that a supermajority of 144 employees across Sega of America's quality assurance, live service, localization, marketing, and product development departments have filed to form a union. This team of workers headquartered in Sega of America's Irvine, California office filed its union election with the National Labor Relations Board and will go by the name Allied Employees Guild Improving Sega (AEGIS) in partnership with the Communications Workers of America, The Verge reports. 

"We believe that the passionate, hardworking people at our Irvine offices deserve a say in our working conditions, and we are joining together to advocate for change in our workplace," this new union writes on Twitter. "This is our vision for the path forward. #UnionizeSEGA" 

The AEGIS union also released a longer statement outlining why it's unionizing, what it wants for its members, and more. You can check it out, in full, below: 

We believe that the passionate, hardworking people at our Irvine offices deserve a say in our working conditions, and we are joining together to advocate for change in our workplace.

This is our vision for the path forward. #UnionizeSEGA pic.twitter.com/G4v2TDl0kL
— AEGIS-CWA 💙 #UnionizeSEGA (@takesAEGIS) April 24, 2023

The Verge interviewed two members of this new union and writes that both people it spoke to are "hopeful that Sega of America and its Japanese parent company will voluntarily recognize the union." For more about this unionization effort, be sure to check out The Verge's full story.

Game Informer has reached out to Sega of America for comment and will update this story accordingly if comment is received. 

[Source: The Verge]

      Products In This Article

Sonic Frontiers

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 8, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

