
  Senua's Saga: Hellblade II Locked To 30 FPS On Xbox Series X/S, According To VFX Director






            A fresh new batch of Senua's Saga: Hellblade II previews have dropped today, which is how we learned Ninja Theory co-founder and Hellblade director-writer Anteem Antoniades is no longer at the studio. It's also how we learned the game will run at 30 FPS on Xbox Series X/S. 

Speaking to German publication GamePro, Hellblade II visual effects director Mark Slater-Tunstill confirmed the game will run at 30 FPS alongside dynamic scaling on Xbox Series X/S, as reported by Wccftech. Slater-Tunstill told GamePro the 30 FPS makes sense with the game's more cinematic nature. However, if you're after higher frames, a beefier PC can likely accomplish that. 

Regardless of frames, Hellblade II is sure to be stunning visually. Developed in Epic Games' Unreal Engine 5, Ninja Theory told Polygon this engine has allowed the game's more realistic nature to be achievable, thanks to its Nanite geometry system and because "the turnaround between scanning the thing and putting it in the level is drastically cut, and you can spend that time finessing." Be sure to read Polygon's full Hellblade II preview for more details on what to expect visually from this game. 

Hellblade II hits Xbox Series X/S and PC on May 21. 

For more, watch the latest Hellblade II trailer here, and then read about Hellblade II's photo mode and what to expect from it at launch. After that, watch this Hellblade II gameplay trailer. 

[Source: Wccftech via GamePro]

Are you playing Hellblade II on Xbox Series X/S or PC? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Senua's Saga: Hellblade II

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

May 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

