
  Silent Hill Creator's Slitterhead Gets First Gameplay Look In New Trailer, Out This November






            Silent Hill creator Keiichiro Toyama founded Bokeh Game Studio back in 2020 to work on a new horror game that we later learned is called Slitterhead. After a teaser trailer and a behind-the-scenes look at the game's development, we finally have our first look at gameplay. Plus, the studio announced Slitterhead launches on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, and PC on November 8.

Revealed in a new trailer during the 2024 Summer Game Fest showcase, Slitterhead's debut gameplay trailer starts in a Chinese city, with a police detective searching through a trashed ally. He finds what appears to be a mangled body in a trash can before the trailer shows more of the neon-lit Chinese metropolis, with shots of (presumably) our playable protagonist jumping from high above to the ground below while using some spectral power that allows them to possess bodies of pedestrians. We also get a look at Slitterhead's monstrous creatures and third-person survival action gameplay, which features both guns and melee combat. 

Check it out for yourself in the Slitterhead gameplay trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

As you can see, Slitterhead is looking quite action-packed, especially compared to Toyama's Silent Hill efforts. However, the lineage is clear. 

Slitterhead has largely remained a mystery since its reveal. We know in 2021, Toyama said he was working on a choice-driven game, and we assume that's Slitterhead. Toyama also told IGN Japan his next project (presumably Slitterhead) would be released in 2023. Obviously, that didn't happen, but now we know it's releasing this November. Outside of that, a behind-the-scenes video diary showed a few clips of Slitterhead, including training room-esque encounters, a neon-lit Chinese city, and even a dog that appears to be playable. 

Slitterhead hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, and PC on November 8. 

What do you think about this first look at Slitterhead's gameplay? Let us know in the comments below! 

      Products In This Article

Slitterhead

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

November 8, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

