
  Smite 2 Is An Unreal Engine 5 Sequel To Smite, Alpha Testing Begins This Spring






            Developer Titan Forge Games and publisher Hi-Rez Studios have announced Smite 2, a sequel to Smite that is rebuilding the third-person action MOBA from the ground up in Unreal Engine 5. There's no release date for the sequel, but Titan Forge Games says it's coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC via Steam and the Epic Games Store. Closed early alpha testing will begin this spring. 

The team says Smite 2 will feature a diverse roster of Gods from all sorts of mythological pantheons around the world, and while some playable gods will stay true to how they perform in Smite, others "will have new animations, FX, and even reimagined abilities." 

Check out the Smite 2 announcement trailer for yourself below: 

Alongside today's news, Titan Forge Games has also revealed Hecate, the first God exclusive to Smite 2. "She brings an elegant playstyle to Smite 2 with her ranged magical abilities, and her magic allows her to reach through dimensions and even travel within the liminal space itself," the studio writes in a tweet. 

Introducing Hecate, the first all new God exclusive to SMITE 2!

She brings an elegant playstyle to SMITE 2 with her ranged magical abilities, and her magic allows her to reach through dimensions and even travel within the liminal space itself! pic.twitter.com/6wqc6DdLB8
— SMITE (@SMITEGame) January 12, 2024

Elsewhere in today's reveal, Titan Forge Games says Relics (as players know them) are no more, and instead, your entire six-slot item inventory can potentially have an activated effect triggered by a button press. Plus, Smite 2 will feature new Stealth Zones, game-changing buffs as players defeat Gold Fury, and new minion formations to master. And, of course, the Jungle map will evolve from Smite, and players can "interact with the map like never before." 

Over on VideoGamesChronicle, Smite 2 executive producer Travis Brown speaks to the team's decision not to transfer Smite skins to the sequel. Brown says, "Existing content from Smite 1 will not directly translate to Smite 2, but don't worry; just because your content doesn't directly transfer doesn't mean we're not rewarding our loyal players in Smite 2 for their time, money, and accomplishments." 

VGC says Titan Forge Games claims each skin takes roughly two months to transfer from Smite, which runs on Unreal Engine 3, to Smite 2, which is being developed in Unreal Engine 5. With more than 1600 skins, bringing each one over to Smite 2 would take 246 years, according to the team, VGC reports. 

Smite 2 hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC some time in the future. Closed alpha testing is expected to begin this spring. 

Are you excited for Smite 2? Let us know why in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Smite 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Smite

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 25, 2014 (PC), August 19, 2015 (Xbox One), May 31, 2016 (PlayStation 4), February 18, 2019 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

