
  Sonic Rumble Is A 32-Player Mobile Platforming Battle Royale Coming This Winter






            Sega has revealed Sonic Rumble, a 32-player mobile platforming battle royale, and it's coming this winter. As is par for the course of battle royale-type games, Sonic Rumble puts 32 players against each other competing on various levels and obstacle courses to remain the last person standing. 

In the reveal trailer, it's clear players control various characters from the universe of Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog series, including Sonic, of course, Tails, Knuckles, Shadow, Amy, Dr. Eggman, and presumably more. As you play, you collect rings and these are used to customize your characters in special outfits and more. 

Check it out for yourself in the Sonic Rumble announce trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

There's no release date for Sonic Rumble yet, but Sega says it's releasing this Winter. Given it's a mobile game, it's expected to hit iOS and Android. If you're interested in trying the game out, you can sign up for beta tests right now. 

For more about everyone's favorite blue blur, read Game Informer's Sonic Frontiers review, and then read Game Informer's Sonic Superstars review. After that, watch Game Informer's exclusive video interview with Sonic's Takashi Iizuka about Sega's road to the Dreamcast. 

Are you going to play Sonic Rumble later this year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Sonic Rumble

Platform:

iOS, Android

Release Date:

Winter

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

