
  Sonic X Shadow Generations Gets October Release Date In New Gameplay Trailer






            Sonic x Shadow Generations, a remaster of the original 2011 Generations game with improved visuals and an added Shadow campaign, launches this October. More specifically, a new gameplay trailer Sega released during today's Summer Game Fest 2024 showcase confirms it's launching on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on October 25, for $49.99. 

In the new trailer, we get a look at some of the Generations gameplay as well as some of the new Shadow the Hedgehog gameplay, which is brand new as part of this release. Not only can you play as Shadow, but Sega has created new levels to play through as the hedgehog. 

Check it out for yourself in the Sonic x Shadow Generations release date trailer below: 

Sega revealed Sonic x Shadow Generations during a January PlayStation State of Play earlier this year, revealing it's a remaster of Generations with 60 frames-per-second performance, a playable Shadow the Hedgehog (with new levels, too) alongside Sonic, and more. It looks great, and we can't wait to replay one of the Blue Blur's best games. Fortunately, we don't have to wait too long because Sonic x Shadow Generations hits PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC on October 25. 

For more, read Game Informer's Sonic Generations review, and then read Game Informer's reviews of Sonic Superstars and Sonic Frontiers. After that, check out this story about how Keanu Reeves is reportedly voicing Shadow in the Sonic the Hedgehog 3 movie. 

Are you going to play Sonic x Shadow Generations this October? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Sonic x Shadow Generations

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

