
  Square Enix Has Seemingly Canceled Some Games In An Effort To Be 'More Selective And Focused'






            Square Enix, the company behind last year's Final Fantasy XVI and this year's Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, has seemingly canceled some in-development games, taking on some big losses as a result. As for why, the company is aiming to be more selective about its projects moving forward. 

This news comes from a release related to Square Enix's holdings, which explains the company is incurring losses of 22.1 billion Yen, or roughly $140 million, on its financial books for the fiscal year that ended in March. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"At the meeting convened on March 27, 2024, the Board of Directors of Square Enix Holdings voted, in light of the myriad changes underway in the environment surrounding its group, to revise the group's approach to the development of high-definition (HD) games with the intention of being more selective and focused in the allocation of development resources," the release reads. "As a result of a close examination, the company expects to recognize approximately 22.1 billion Yen in content abandonment losses on its books for the fiscal year ended March 2024." 

While potentially canceled games might sound doom and gloom, it sounds more like Square Enix is sharpening its developmental focus to ensure that the games it releases are hits or, at the very least, financially successful for the company. Nonetheless, it sounds like roughly $140 million of games in development have been canceled and it's unlikely we'll ever find out what they were. 

This release comes after a big splash from Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, which Square Enix released in February. Elsehwere in 2024, Square Enix is releasing Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail, the new expansion for the MMO that will kick off a new saga for the long-running game, in July. 

What's your take on this news? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XVI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

June 22, 2023 (PlayStation 5), TBA (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

