
  Star Wars: Hunters Gets June Release Date For Switch In New Trailer






            Zynga has released a new trailer for its upcoming competitive multiplayer game, Star Wars: Hunters, revealing a June 4 release date alongside a new cinematic look at some of the characters. Star Wars: Hunters will hit Switch and iOS and Android devices on that day, giving players the chance to compete with others in iconic locations like the forest moon of Endor, the icy planet of Hoth, and elsewhere while controlling Hunters like J-3DI, a droid who thinks he's a Jedi, Utooni which is two Jawas stacked on top of each other in a trench coat, and more. 

Zynga says each Hunter boasts their own unique set of abilities to aid them in the Arena, which is the marquee attraction of the new planet of Vespaara. "Star Wars: Hunters features a number of game modes for players to test their mettle, such as Squad Brawl, in which opposing teams will battle to rack up the most eliminations, and Trophy Chase, where competing teams will vie for control of the elusive droid TR-F33," a press release reads. 

Check out the action in the new Star Wars: Hunters trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"We are beyond excited to welcome fans across the globe to Vespaara," Zynga vice president Sam Cooper writes in a press release. "We can't wait for gamers to meet our Hunters and hop into the Arena. There are so many fun twists and winks to recognizable, beloved Star Wars settings, creatures, and themes within our game that we also are eager to see players worldwide get the chance to discover." 

Star Wars: Hunters will be available worldwide on Switch, iOS, and Android devices. It will be free, and on Switch, it does not require a Nintendo Switch Online membership to download and play.

For more, watch the Star Wars: Hunters reveal trailer, and then check out some gameplay from it here. 

Are you going to check out Star Wars: Hunters in June? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Star Wars: Hunters

Platform:

Switch, iOS, Android

Release Date:

June 4, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

