
  Starfield's First Expansion, Shattered Space, To Release This Fall






            Starfield's first expansion, Shattered Space, is set to arrive this fall, according to director Todd Howard. Plus, a new update for Starfield is coming later this week that will make changes to ship-building mechanics and more. 

Howard revealed this and more about Starfield in a new interview with Kinda Funny, which is where the Bethesda executive producer also discussed Amazon's Fallout TV show and the Fallout series in general, as reported by XboxEra. As for what to expect of Shattered Space, Howard didn't say much. However, we already know it will bring new story content, locations, gear, and more to Starfield. 

As noted by XboxEra, Shattered Space will be free for all Starfield Deluxe Edition owners. 

As for the update coming to Starfield later this week, Howard says it will focus on the ship-building. This lines up with what the Starfield team shared last year in its 2024 plans for the game. Here's what it said at the time: "For those who love ship building, we'll also be expanding on ship customization with ship decorations, new ship building options, and more."

Other updates scheduled for 2024 include new ways to travel, city maps, mod support, accessibility and additional difficulty options, and more. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Starfield review, and then read about how Starfield is surprisingly great as a remote-play game. After that, check out this story about how Starfield is more like a sci-fi theme park than an open world adventure. 

[Source: Kinda Funny via XboxEra]

What do you hope to see in the Shattered Space expansion? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Starfield

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

