
  Star Wars' Ahsoka Tano Battle Pass Now Available In Fortnite Chapter 4: Season 4






            Star Wars' Ahsoka Tano is now a part of Epic Games' battle royale, Fortnite. She joined Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 4: Last Resort this morning and includes a battle pass, her white Jedi Training Lightsaber weapon, Force abilities, and more. Epic says Ahsoka, her lightsaber, and Force abilities will remain in Fortnite until the v26.30 update. 

Spread around the battle island in Fortnite, you'll find Ahsoka holograms. Interact with them to speak to her and accept her offer to train you. After entering and exiting her rift, you'll gain a white Jedi Training Lightsaber weapon and knowledge of some Force abilities. You can only use these abilities while wielding the Lightsaber weapon after completing Ahsoka's training.

As far as Force abilities go, you'll be able to use the Force to sprint faster and double jump as well as push objects and players away. 

This morning, Ahsoka's own battle pass went live. Complete special Ahsoka Tano Battle Pass Quests during battle royale matches to unlock the Ahsoka outfit and accompanying accessories. 

Above is a look at her loading screen, and below is look at her banner icon, pickaxe, spray, emoticon, back bling, wrap, emote, and outfit: 

The Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 4 Battle Pass is required to unlock Ahsoka. 

Elsewhere in today's update, Epic Games has added the Marksman Headshots Reality Augment to the pool rotation. With it activated, your Marksman Rifle headshots will deal increased damage. 

Plus, the More Parkour and Soaring Sprints Reality Augments have been unvaulted. With the former, you briefly regenerate energy each time you mantle and with the latter, you jump higher with lower gravity while sprinting. 

For more about Fortnite, watch the Chapter 4 Season 4: Last Resort trailer and then check out our breakdown of everything you need to know about this season. After that, read about how Epic Games chief creative officer and Fortnite head Donald Mustard is retiring and then check out the latest My Hero Academia skins to hit the game. 

Are you going to obtain Ahsoka Tano in Fortnite? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

