
  Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection Is Off To A Rough Start On PC






            Update, 03/15/24:

Following the rough launch of Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection, which is an HD port combo of the original Star Wars: Battlefront and Star Wars: Battlefront II on modern consoles and PC, developer Aspyr Media says it's working to address issues and increase network stability. 

Shortly after the game's launch on March 14, players across all platforms (but especially PC), experienced server issues preventing them from getting into matches as well as other connectivity issues like disconnects, rubberbanding, and more once actually in a match. The result was a wave of disappointment from players excited to play these classic multiplayer games. Now, a day later, Aspyr has acknowledged the issues and is working to fix them. 

"We'd like to thank the Battlefront community for their overwhelming support and feedback for the Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection release," an update from the studio reads. "At launch, we experienced critical errors with our networking infrastructure. The result was incredibly high ping, matchmaking errors, crashes, and servers not appearing in the browser. 

"Since launch, we've been working to address these issues and increase network stability, and we will continue our efforts until our network infrastructure is stabilized to prevent further outages."

Aspyr encourages player to report bugs, errors, or unexpected behaviours to its support team via this request form. 

The original story continues below...

Original story, 03/14/24:

We learned last month that Aspyr Media was developing Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection, a remastered port combo of Star Wars: Battlefront and Star Wars: Battlefront II, first released in 2004 and 2005 respectively. This collection is now live but it seems the game is having a rough start at launch, especially for PC players. 

The viral tweet below posted to X (formerly Twitter) early this morning is indicative of many of the problems PC players are experiencing with the game: 

-10,000 people playing on launch night.
-Only has 3 servers that have 64 slots for a total of ~200 players.
-Multiplayer doesn't work otherwise.
-Price Tag of 35 USD
Jesus Christ I am so disappointed this is robbery, don't buy Star Wars Battlefront Classic Collection pic.twitter.com/JB7oCTHzgh
— seb 🦝📕 (@sebbaku) March 14, 2024

Replies to that tweet highlight some of the other issues players are apparently running into: zero options to party up with friends and a lack of expected quality-of-life improvements (@damnitbobbywhy), rubberbanding (@SoCalZork), and more. However, some players are saying the biggest issues, like a low amount of servers and an inability to actually get into matches, were fixed within two hours of launch. 

Over on the Star Wars Battlefront subreddit, dozens of users are posting memes about the game's launch, discussions about connectivity issues, and more. One user posted a screenshot of them downloading the original Star Wars Battlefront games on Xbox (through backward compatibility) to play instead of this collection, while another says this re-release is "hands down the word video game I have ever paid money for." It's clear players on that subreddit are not happy with Aspyr's Battlefront collection. 

On Steam, the game, which has a price tag of $35.01, has a "mostly negative" rating after 1,407 reviews – 21 percent of the reviews for the game are positive.

Now, players absolutely have the right to be upset about a $35 game they paid for and are seemingly unable to play at launch, which is doubly unfortunate when it's clear a lot of these players were excited to jump in right at launch. But, there's a good chance Aspyr is already working on fixes for the collection and ideally, a week from now, nobody is running into the issues Day One players are experiencing. That's still not fair to Day One players but if you're a fan of online games like this, you know rough launches aren't all that unusual, as unfortunate as they can be. 

Are you experiencing issues in Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

March 14, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

