
  Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic Remake 'Alive And Well' Following Embracer Sale






            Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake is "alive and well," according to Saber Interactive CEO Matthew Karch. He revealed this during a recent interview with IGN, where he also confirmed Saber took Star Wars: KOTOR Remake with it following its split from Embracer Group. 

Last month, Embracer Group, the company behind the closure of Saints Row studio Volition Games and layoffs at companies like Black Forest Games and Eidos-Montréal, sold Saber in a $500 million deal. It sold the studio, which is also developing the first-person adventure Jurassic Park: Survival, to a group of private investors under Beacon Interactive, which is controlled by Karch. At the time of the sale, the company didn't mention its Star Wars: KOTOR Remake, leaving excited fans concerned for the game, which itself has already gone through some rocky development. 

Now, thanks to Karch's interview with IGN, we know the game is still in development. 

"It's clear and it's obvious that we're working on this," Karch told the publication. "It's been in the press numerous times. What I will say is that the game is alive and well, and we're dedicated to making sure we exceed consumer expectations." 

That's all Karch shared about the remake, however, and IGN writes that in an investor call following the announcement of Saber's sale, Embracer CEO Lars Wingefors implied the remake might still be a long ways away. 

For more about the game, watch the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake reveal trailer, and then read about how Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic's biggest issue is how it plays. After that, check out Game Informer's big list of upcoming video game remakes. 

[Source: IGN]

Are you still excited for Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

