
  Stellar Blade Director Reveals New Game Plus Mode, Says No Microtransactions With One Exception






            Stellar Blade director Kim Hyung Tae has announced that developer ShiftUp's upcoming action game, Stellar Blade, will get a New Game+ mode sometime after launch. Plus, Tae says there will be no microtransactions in the game, save for one theoretical exception. 

This news comes from a new interview with Korean publication Ruliweb, where Tae explained that while Stellar Blade will have a New Game+ mode at some point, it won't be available at launch, as translated by Genki_JPN on Twitter. Tae also told Ruliweb that players should not expect any microtransactions in Stellar Blade, but notes that one exception would be paid collaborations with another company's IP. 

"We want to make it clear at this point that Stellar Blade will not require any additional expenses that gamers are not aware of beyond what they paid for the package," Tae told Ruliweb. "The only exception is if we create collaboration costumes with another company's IP; those may be sold for a fee. Also, there is no New Game+ in the launch version, so please look forward to it being updated very soon." 

Given that no collaborations have been announced at this point, Tae is likely just checking bases for hypothetical collaborations ShiftUp may or may not be pursuing. At any rate, given the popularity of ShiftUp's Goddess of Victory: NIKKE game on mobile devices, it's possible we see an internal collaboration between those two properties. 

Stellar Blade is an action game launching on PlayStation 5 exclusively on April 26. It was announced in 2021 as Project EVE. There is a demo for Stellar Blade available on PSN that you can download right now if you're curious about how the game plays. 

For more, read Game Informer's Stellar Blade feature for behind-the-scenes details and new insight from Tae. 

[Source: Ruliweb]

Are you excited for Stellar Blade? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Stellar Blade

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

April 26, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

