
  Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Fell Short Of Expectations According To Warner Bros






            Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League, the third-person live-service multiplayer shooter from Batman: Arkham series developer Rocksteady Studios, launched earlier this month. It received middling reviews – read Game Informer's review here to find out why we gave it a 6 out of 10 – and fans have been less-than-impressed with the shooter. It seems Warner Bros. Discovery is less-than-impressed, too, as the company said in its latest financial call that Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League had "fallen short of our expectations," as reported by IGN. 

More specifically, that's Warner Bros. Discovery chief financial officer Gunnar Wiedenfels who said Rocksteady's latest effort fell short of the company's expectations. However, Wiedenfels did not mention a sales figure. According to IGN, the executive lamented that Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League's missed expectations set Warner Bros.' games division up for a tough year when it comes to year-on-year comparisons.

Wiedenfels is likely alluding to Hogwarts Legacy, the company's massive hit that launched last year and went on to become the best-selling game of 2023, beating out titles like The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III. The sales of Hogwarts Legacy was certainly a tough act for Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League to follow. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's review of Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League, and then check out Game Informer's list of the best superhero games of all time. After that, read our list of upcoming superhero games to look forward to. 

[Source: IGN]

Have you been playing Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

