
  Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Gets Playable Joker In Season 1 This March






            Developer Rocksteady Studios has pulled back the curtains on the free seasonal content coming to Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League after the game's launch on February 2. Season 1 will kick off in March and includes the most famous villain in the DC roster: The Joker. Not only is The Joker joining the game, but he'll be a new playable member of the Suicide Squad. 

Notably, this take on The Joker is not the Mark Hamill-voiced character from the Batman: Arkham series. Instead, Brainiac is pulling Elseworlds together in an attempt to merge them into a unified multiverse. This is how The Joker in Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League joins the roster. In his universe, he was already a member of the Suicide Squad. His playstyle is fast and dynamic and requires players to stay moving, according to Rocksteady. 

Check out The Joker in Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League in action in the video below: 

As you can see, this video teases other villainous appearances and locations, like a Gotham City Police Department floating in space by flowing lava and a frozen locale that might be teasing Mr. Freeze. 

Alongside The Joker, players will have a new playable environment to explore that looks like a chemical factory-turned-funhouse by the man himself, plus new boss fights and enemy variants, including new variants of Green Lantern and Superman, according to Rocksteady's Season 1 teaser, which you can view below: 

Other Season 1 additions include new DC villain-themed weapons and gear, new Riddler content, new activities and strongholds, and two new episodes of narrative content – these episodes will be centered on Two-Face and Scarecrow. 

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on February 2. 

For more about the game, read our hands-on preview with Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League after playing it for a few hours, and then check out this story about how Rocksteady responded to leaks surrounding the game's story. After that, read Game Informer's list of upcoming superhero games. 

What do you think of this take on The Joker? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

