
  Super Nintendo World Comes To Florida In Universal's New 'Epic Universe' Theme Park Next Year






            Universal opened Super Nintendo World, the first Nintendo/Mario-themed theme park, in Universal Studios Japan in Osaka in 2021. The first Super Nintendo World in the U.S. opened at Universal Studios Hollywood last year in California, with word that a Super Nintendo World was in development at Universal's Orlando, Florida, complex, which contains Universal Studios, Islands of Adventure, and the water park, Volcano Bay.

Today, Nintendo announced that Super Nintendo World will open next year as part of Epic Universe, Universal's third non-water theme park in Orlando. 

Universal says Epic Universe will contain five immersive worlds, and one of them is Super Nintendo World. The other four parks are Celestial Park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Ministry of Magic, How to Train Your Dragon's Isle of Berk, and Dark Universe. The How to Train Your Dragon, Super Nintendo World, and Harry Potter lands are self-explanatory, but Celestial Park will be a celestial-themed entrance area to Epic Universe and Dark Universe will be themed around Universal's classic monsters, like Frankenstein and more.

Nintendo didn't share much about what to expect at Florida's Super Nintendo World, but given the extra space Universal has in Orlando, fans are expecting the Mario Kart AR experience and the Yoshi's Adventure dark ride already in Japan. Universal Studios Hollywood does not feature Yoshi's Adventure. Universal Studios Japan is also developing a Donkey Kong-themed rollercoaster, set to open up this spring, and aerial drone footage of Epic Universe's development shows that ride is coming to Florida, too. 

Here's a look at some concept art of Super Nintendo World at Epic Universe: 

Here's what Nintendo has to say about its upcoming land in Epic Universe: 

Adventure awaits! SUPER NINTENDO WORLD, one of the five immersive worlds is opening at the all-new Universal Epic Universe theme park at Universal Orlando Resort in 2025. 💫 #EpicUniverse https://t.co/tpcR5lWnf6 pic.twitter.com/0A3ECtSblV
— Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) January 30, 2024

Universal's Epic Universe opens up to guests in 2025. 

While waiting to learn more about the park, check out Game Informer's photo tour of Japan's Super Nintendo World, and then read about the upcoming Donkey Kong Country expansion coming to Universal Studios Japan. 

Are you excited for Super Nintendo World to open in Florida next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

