
  Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble: Sega Unveils New 4-Player Co-Op Adventure Mode With Gameplay Trailer






            Sega has released a new gameplay trailer for the Adventure Mode in the upcoming Switch-exclusive Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble. In it, we get gameplay of the up-to-four-player mode that features 200 stages set across various different worlds, and it looks like a blast. 

Featuring both local and online four-player co-op, Adventure Mode will be available on day one when Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble launches on Switch on June 25. Optional assist features, like Rewind and Ghost Guide, allow players to customize how their monkey ball experience plays. 

Check it out for yourself in the new Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble: Adventure gameplay trailer below: 

"While visiting a tropical island, AiAi and the gang meet a girl named Palette, an adventurer searching for the Legendary Banana," a press release reads. "They agree to join her on her journey across wondrous worlds to collect special parts said to be the key to localizing this prized relic. Along the way, they'll meet new friends and encounter mysterious rivals."

Adventure Mode features 200 new stages set across different worlds, such as Banana Farm, Rose Garden, Floating City, Golden Temple, and Stone Valley. Each brings its own unique twist and challenge to the Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble experience. 

In Adventure Mode, players can utilize the Rewind feature to rewind to a previous point of a stage and re-attempt a particularly challenging section. The Ghost Guide option adds a transparent monkey alongside the player that demonstrates how to proceed, while the Route Guide will point you in the right direction if you're unsure of where to go. Plus, you can restart at any checkpoint within a stage at any time. 

Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble hits Switch on June 25. 

For more, watch the Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble reveal trailer. 

Are you excited for Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Super Monkey Ball Banana Rumble

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

June 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

