
  Switch Successor Targeting March 2025, According To New Report






            Japanese outlet Nikkei is reporting that the Switch successor, or "Switch 2" as it's been dubbed colloquially within the games industry, is targeting a March 2025 launch, according to VideoGamesChronicle. This report follows earlier reporting from VGC and other outlets like Eurogamer that Nintendo's next console was originally targeting a 2024 launch before being pushed internally to the first quarter of 2025, which lines up with Nikkei's latest reporting. 

VGC reports that Nikkei writes, "Priority was given to ensure the initial inventory of the successor console and a lineup of software titles at the time of its launch" to curb the possibility of a stock shortage similar to what the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S experienced back in 2020. Following previous reports, Nikkei also writes that Nintendo's next console will be a hybrid home console-portable device like the Switch with a larger screen. 

Finally, Nikkei writes the internal target is March 2025 but that the Switch 2 could slip beyond that depending on manufacturing and the software available for the console's launch at that time, according to VGC. If it does launch in March of next year, it'd follow in the Switch's footsteps, which launched in March of 2017.

It's important to note that all of this should be taken with a grain of salt as these delays remain internal for the time being. The Switch's successor hasn't even been publicly revealed yet, so there's no telling when to expect it officially. In the meantime, though, read about how Nintendo reportedly demoed the Switch successor to developers at Gamescom last year. 

[Source: Nikkei via VideoGamesChronicle]

Do you think March of next year is a good time for a new Nintendo console? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Nintendo Switch

Release Date:

March 3, 2017

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

