
  Switch Exclusive Front Mission 2: Remake Marches To PlayStation, Xbox, And PC This Month






            Front Mission 2: Remake is coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC later this month. More specifically, the previously Switch-exclusive remake will hit these new platforms on April 30. 

Released back in October on Switch, Front Mission 2: Remake is the first time Western players have been able to play through this tactics/strategy RPG since the game's original Japan-only release in 1997. It's set 12 years after Front Mission 1st: Remake, which hit Switch in November 2022 and other platforms in June of last year, and puts players in control of Ash, an O.C.U soldier trying to escape the overrun nation of Alordesh. However, in this escape, Ash learns of a much broader conspiracy. 

Check out the Front Mission 2: Remake release date trailer for yourself below: 

Like the Switch version, Front Mission 2: Remake on PlayStation, Xbox, and PC features improved loading times compared to the original, free camera movement, a revamped soundtrack, new customization options, and extra language support. 

Starting April 15, PC players can check out a free demo of Front Mission 2: Remake on Steam. Developer and publisher Forever Entertainment says saved game data from the demo will carry over to the full game upon its release later this month. 

Front Mission 2: Remake hit Switch back in October; it hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on April 30. 

Are you going to check out Front Mission 2: Remake later this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Front Mission 2: Remake

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 5, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

