
  Take-Two Closes Rollerdrome And Kerbal Space Program 2 Studios While Majority Of Private Division Laid Off






            Update, 2:47 p.m., May 2, 2024:

Earlier today, we learned that Take-Two Interactive, the company-publisher behind the Grand Theft Auto series, had closed Rollerdrome studio Roll7 and Kerbal Space Program 2 studio Intercept Games. Both of those games, and many others including the recently released No Rest for the Wicked, were published by Private Division, an indie-publishing arm under Take-Two.

Now, in a new update from GamesIndustry.biz, the publication reports that Take-Two has shuttered the "vast majority" of Private Division's teams in Seattle, New York, Las Vegas, and Munich, according to one of its sources. When GamesIndustry.biz reached out to Take-Two for confirmation, the company issued the same statement that can be read in Game Informer's original story below. 

The original story continues below...

Original story, 9:48 a.m., May 2, 2024:

Take-Two Interactive, the company behind games like Grand Theft Auto V that also acquired mobile giant Zynga in 2022 in the second-biggest deal in games history, has closed Roll7 and Intercept Games, the studios behind Rollerdrome and Kerbal Space Program 2, respectively. After a report from GameDeveloper.com indicated Take-Two was laying off 70 people at Intercept Games, Bloomberg released a report confirming that Take-Two was shuttering both Intercept Games and Roll7. 

The publication reports that Take-Two is closing the London-based Roll7 and offering severance to staff. A notice filed with the Washington State Employment Security Department indicates that Take-Two is planning to close a Seattle-based studio with 70 employees, which aligns with Intercept Games' employee count and location. 

While Take-Two hasn't yet addressed the closures, it gave the following statement to IGN regarding the layoffs and the status of Kerbal Space Program 2, which launched into Early Access last year. 

"On April 16, Take-Two announced a cost reduction program to identify efficiencies across its business and to enhance the Company's margin profile while still investing for growth. As part of these efforts, the Company is rationalizing its pipeline and eliminating several projects in development and streamlining its organization structure, which will eliminate headcount and reduce future hiring needs. The company is not providing additional details. 

"On April 18, Private Division successfully launched Moon Studio's No Rest for the Wicked. The label continues to make updates to Kerbal Space Program 2 and plans to release Wētā Workshop Game Studio's Tales of the Shire: A Lord of the Rings game in the second half of 2024." 

These closures arrive roughly a month after Take-Two announced it was laying off 5% (579 employees) at its various companies while canceling projects in the works. The publisher also acquired Gearbox Entertainment in late March. Roll7 won a BAFTA award for Rollerdrome last year and also developed 2022's OlliOlli World.

The hearts of the Game Informer staff are with everyone who's been affected by layoffs or closures. 

[Source: Bloomberg, IGN]

      Products In This Article

Rollerdrome

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

August 16, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC), November 28, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Kerbal Space Program 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

