
  Tales Of The Shire's First Trailer Reveals It Is Middle-Earth Animal Crossing With Hobbits






            Developer Wētā Workshop and publisher Private Division have released the first trailer for Tales of the Shire, and it showcases what looks like a Middle-earth Animal Crossing game with hobbits and a cozy place to call home. This trailer arrives after the companies teased releasing the first Tales of the Shire trailer this month, following the game's reveal last year. 

In Tales of the Shire, players will create their own Hobbit before setting forth into Bywater, the shire setting of the game. Here, players can forage fruits and herbs, tend to gardens, fish, trade with townsfolk, and more, all while working to help Bywater, which has not yet been established as an official village in Hobbiton, flourish. 

"Greet comfort at the door as you deocrate your own Hobbit hole, tend to your garden, fish at the clear ponds, forage wild fruits and herbs, or trade with townsfolk, " a press release reads. "Prepare homemade meals to share with fellow Hobbits and foster relationships. With much to see and lots more to eat, enjoy days of splendor in the picturesque forests, lakes, and pastures."

Check out the first official Tales of the Shire trailer for yourself below: 

Tales of the Shire's Hobbit hole customization features grid-free placement, allowing players to put furniture and home decor anywhere they want, however they want. You can harvest seasonal crops and flowers as time passes in your homestead, and stock your Hobbit hole pantry afterward. Plus, you can cook using unique recipes, partake in second breakfast, and even host dinner parties with other Hobbits in Bywater. Sharing meals with guests will create new relationships to cultivate as the seasons go by. 

Wētā Workshop says ever-changing weather will affect daily routines and bring seasonal surprises to Bywater. You can obtain rewards through story progression all while meeting familiar and iconic characters, too. You can trade with them for upgrades to skills, clothes, your home, and more, and joining clubs and completing missions and daily activities will further Bywater's status as an official village. 

Here are some screenshots from Tales of the Shire: 

For more about the game, head to Game Informer's Tales of the Shire hub. 

Are you excited for Tales of the Shire? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Tales of the Shire

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

