
  Teardown Hits PS5 And Xbox Series X/S This November






            Teardown is a voxel-based simulation game all about destruction, as its name implies. It launched in April of last year on PC and earlier this year, developer Tuxedo Labs announced the game was coming to consoles this year. Now, the studio has revealed Teardown hits PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S on November 15. 

When it hits PS5 on November 15, it will also join the PlayStation Plus Game Catalog for PlayStation Plus Extra and Premium members. To coincide with today's console launch news, Tuxedo Labs has also revealed a series of new missions, maps, vehicles, and more coming to Teardown over the next year as well as the game's first-ever season pass. 

Check all that out for yourself in the Teardown console release date trailer below: 

Tuxedo Labs recommends that new players start with Teardown's story campaign, which features 40 levels. Each begins with a main task, like stealing an object or destroying certain things, and a series of bonus challenges. You must complete these tasks using various tools, weapons, vehicles, and more before a clock runs out of time. After making your way through the campaign, Tuxedo Labs recommends the Sandbox Mode, which allows you to explore all of the campaign levels without limitation. 

Alongside the console release, Tuxedo Labs is releasing the Time Campers DLC, which is a campaign expansion set in the wild west. 

"The new expansion adds to the experience in many different ways, introducing a new storyline that takes you back in time, equips you with old-fashioned weapons and tools, and sets your destructive sights upon a dusty mining town," a PlayStation Blog post reads. "It's a departure from the contemporary setting of Teardown's main campaign, but the heist concept feels right at home in the era of elaborate bank robberies." 

In the spring of next year, Tuxedo Labs will add the Folkrace DLC to Teardown, which puts players behind a fleet of new vehicles to use in races and destructive challenges.

After Folkrace, Tuxedo Labs has two more unannounced DLCs set to release in 2024. The Teardown season pass will get you all four of these DLCs. 

Teardown is currently available on PC. It hits PS5 and Xbox Series X/S on November 15. 

In the meantime, watch Game Informer's Teardown NGT. 

      Products In This Article

Teardown

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

April 21, 2022 (PC), November 15, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

