
  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection Is Getting Delisted In Japan This Month






            Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection is getting delisted on Steam in Japan later this month. That's according to a new "Notice of End of Sales" post on the game's Steam page. From Friday, March 29, 2024, onward, the game will no longer be available for purchase in Japan on the storefront. 

However, online play will remain available after the game's delisting, and purchased copies of the collection will remain available for re-download from the Steam store. 

Released less than two years ago on August 30, 2022, on PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC, The Cowabunga Collection getting delisted so soon comes as a shock. However, it's seemingly only affecting TMNT players in Japan. Game Informer reached out to publisher Konami to ask if there are plans to delist the game outside of Japan and was told it will not be removed from any other store outside of Japan. 

TMNT: The Cowabunga Collection features the following classic turtles games: 

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Arcade)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Turtles in Time (Arcade)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (NES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Arcade Game (NES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III: The Manhattan Project (NES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Tournament Fighters (NES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles IV: Turtles In Time (SNES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Tournament Fighters (SNES)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Hyperstone Heist (Sega Genesis)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Tournament Fighters (Sega Genesis)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Fall of The Foot Clan (Game Boy)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: Back From The Sewers (Game Boy)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III: Radical Rescue (Game Boy)

We loved this roster of games in the collection back in 2022 as it's nostalgia done right. It also got an excellent nostalgia-packed Collector's Set that same year, too. If you haven't jumped into the collection yet, it's even better now than it was at launch thanks to a post-launch patch that added online co-op to the SNES Turtles in Time game, which is easily one of the best in the turtles' history. 

TMNT: The Cowabunga Collection will get delisted from Steam in Japan on March 29, 2024. 

For more about everyone's favorite turtles, check out Game Informer's exclusive details and screenshots about the upcoming Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleased, which is a game that continues the story of the animated film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem. 

Have you played Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 30, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

