
  Terminid Bug Spawn Rates Nerfed On Harder Difficulties In New Helldivers 2 Patch






            Developer Arrowhead Game Studios is releasing a new patch for Helldivers 2 today that nerfs the spawn rate of heavily armored Terminid bug enemies like Chargers and Bile Titans alongside some other changes that should make fighting these enemies, especially on harder difficulties, easier. Set to go live today on PlayStation 5 and PC, Patch 1.000.102 follows a patch from last week that introduced fire tornadoes, meteor showers, weapon buffs, and more to the shooter. 

"Good day citizens of Super Earth," the patch notes read. "A new patch to aid you in your efforts is coming in. May Super Earth give you courage. Today's patch is dealing with the spawn rate of heavily armored Terminid enemies as well as the possible play against them. It also contains some fixes to U.I. elements and crash fixes." 

In terms of Terminid nerfs and fixes, Arrowhead says the spawn rate of heavily armored targets on higher difficulties has been a "big discussion point online and internally." The studio says the intent of the challenge was for groups to have to bring some form of anti-tank capability, but admits not to the degree now needed. 

"To that end, we have reduced the spawn rate of Chargers and Bile Titans on difficulties 7 and up," the team says in the patch notes. "In addition, we have reduced the risk of spawn spikes of Chargers and Bile Titans."

It's important to note that today's patch does not affect the difficulty of these Terminid bugs – just the spawn rate. Arrowhead says to expect other enemy types to appear in greater numbers instead. However, the patch notes say Arrowhead is lowering the health of the Charger's head, making it easier to target that weak point with something like a Recoilless Rifle or EAT-17, which will instantly kill a charger. 

Elsewhere in the patch, the Electronic Countermeasures stratagem has been confirmed as removed – it was actually removed in a past last week but patch notes didn't mention it – so it can be reworked. Here are some other fixes in today's balance update: 

Fixed missing text on several HUD / UI elements.
Fixed several subtitle / VO mismatches in the news videos.
Fixed various crashes that occurred mid-gameplay and when deploying to missions.

For more information on things like known issues within the game, head to the full patch notes here. After that, catch up on all the changes introduced to Helldivers 2 in last week's patch, and then read up on the latest Warbond coming to the game. Be sure to read Game Informer's Helldivers 2 review, too, to find out why we love the game so much. 

Are you happy with the changes coming in today's Helldivers 2 patch? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Helldivers 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

February 8, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

