
  The ESA Has Announced That E3 Is Officially Dead






            The Entertainment Software Association has announced that its long-running Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) is officially dead, as reported by The Washington Post. The last in-person E3 conference happened in 2019 before the COVID-19 pandemic and other complications prevented it from coming back in full form since. Despite struggles, the ESA attempted to bring E3 back in various ways. 

It was canceled in 2020 as a result of the pandemic; the 2021 E3 was an all-digital event; the 2022 show was canceled, and this year's attempt with PAX organizer ReedPop was canned, too. 

pic.twitter.com/y6dtVkBvNI
— E3 (@E3) December 12, 2023

"After more than two decades of hosting an event that has served as a central showcase for the U.S. and global video game industry, the Entertainment Software Association has decided to bring E3 to a close," ESA president and CEO Stanely Pierre-Louis told The Washington Post. "We know the entire industry, players and creators alike have a lot of passion for E3. We share the passion. We know it's difficult to say goodbye to such a beloved event, but it's the right thing to do given the new opportunities our industry has to reach fans and partners." 

Pierre-Louis told The Washington Post that E3's closure means video games and the surrounding business "has blossomed in different ways," noting that any of the major game companies can create their own individual showcases. He's likely alluding to the format popularized by Nintendo with its Nintendo Directs, which other publishers like Xbox and PlayStation utilize now. "That's exciting for our industry, and it means it's an opportunity for them to explore how to engage new audiences in different ways." 

For a recap of the history of E3, read The Washington Post's full story here. For a look at the event's recent cancellation, read our E3 breakdown here. 

[Source: The Washington Post]

What is your favorite E3 memory? Let us know in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

