
  The Final Fantasy XIV And XVI Crossover Event Is Live And Features New Storyline, Clive's Outfit, Torgal, And More






            Final Fantasy XVI is nearing its one-year anniversary since its release back in June of last year on PlayStation 5. With its final set of DLC coming in The Rising Tide launching this spring, and the PC release on the horizon, developer Creative Business Unit III has brought protagonist Clive Rosfield over to its other Final Fantasy game, the critically acclaimed MMORPG, Final Fantasy XIV. 

Thanks to a new crossover event between FFXIV and FFXVI, players can now make their Warrior of Light look like Clive and even ride atop his trusty dog companion, Torgal. Plus, the crossover contains a new story questline for FFXIV, orchestration rolls to collect that feature songs from FFXVI, and an adorable puppy Torgal minion. 

Dubbed The Path Infernal, Square Enix says, "At the conjunction of two stars does the tale begin" between FFXIV and FFXVI. And the crossover is now live as of yesterday, April 2. You have until Wednesday, May 8, to complete the questline, which begins with A Land on Fire. In order to partake in this questline, your Warrior of Light must be Level 50 and you have to have completed the main scenario quest, The Ultimate Weapon; or, in other words, you have to complete the main story of A Realm Reborn. 

After that, head to Ul'Dah – Steps of Nald (X: 8.8, Y: 9.8) to accept A Land on Fire and begin your adventure with Clive. 

Completing this questline gets your Warrior of Light the full regalia of Clive. That includes the Metian Vest, Metian Guantlets, Metian Chausses, and Metian Sollerets. 

You also receive both the Torgal Whistle, which allows you to ride a grown version of Torgal as a mount in FFXIV, and the Torgal Pup minion. 

After completing the crossover questline and obtaining these items, there's still more to collect: 

Clive Rosfield Card for Triple Triad (200,000 MGP)
Tonitrua ex Machina Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Idylls of the Emprie Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Forevermore – The Grand Duchy of Rosaria Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Before the Storm – Caer Norvent Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
The State of the Realm Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Who I Really Am Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Away (Refrain) Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
To Sail Forbidden Seas Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Find The Flame Orcestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
Land of Eikons Orchestration Roll (20,000 MGP)
The FFXIV x FFXVI crossover event is now live in FFXIV and runs until May 8. For more information about it, read the full details here.

For more, read Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI review, and then read Game Informer's review of Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker. After that, read about the upcoming Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail expansion, and then head to Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI coverage hub for exclusive behind-the-scenes details about the game, interviews, videos, and more. 

Are you hopping into FFXIV to partake in this crossover event? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

July 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XVI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

June 22, 2023 (PlayStation 5), TBA (PC)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

