
  The Rogue Prince Of Persia Delayed To Later This Month Because Of Hades II






            Update, 5/13/24:

The Rogue Prince of Persia, the upcoming roguelike from Dead Cells developer Evil Empire, will double-jump into Early Access on May 27. This new release date follows a delay from the original May 14 release date as a result of Hades II, which is gracing the latest cover of Game Informer, launching into Early Access last week. 

Evil Empire delayed The Rogue Prince of Persia's Early Access launch to give its team members, their mothers, and players around the world more time with Hades II. The team said at the time The Rogue Prince of Persia would still hit Early Access this month, and now we know it's May 27. 

The Rogue Prince of Persia's new release date is 27th May! If you didn't see our previous post, the TLDR is to give people time to play Hades 2, including us😄
But if Silksong shadow-drops in the next two weeks we're burning the whole thing down!
Anyway, we can also reveal The… pic.twitter.com/ZQM3l5DcBI
— Evil Empire (@Studio_Evil) May 13, 2024

The original story continues below...

Original story, 5/10/24:

Dead Cells developer Evil Empire has delayed its upcoming roguelike, The Rogue Prince of Persia, because of Hades II. Originally due out on Tuesday, May 14, in PC Early Access, Evil Empire has delayed the game to later this month to give potential players more time with Hades II, which is another roguelike that hit Early Access this week (and it's also gracing the latest cover of Game Informer Magazine). 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

"So it's been a bit of a crazy week for us," a statement from Evil Empire reads. "It all started when a little game called Hades II released – you might have have heard of it? Seeing as everyone and their mum is playing that game (including our entire team...and their mums), we have decided to let people have their fun with it before we release The Rogue Prince of Persia. 

"We will still be releasing in May and will be back with a precise date on Monday. While we have every confidence in The Rogue Prince of Persia, it's not every day that a game in the same genre as you, which is one of the most anticipated upcoming games of 2024, will release into Early Access a week before you plan to do the same. We are not prideful enough to ignore the implications of that, and we truly believe that this short delay is the best decision for us and our Early Access journey." 

The team says this extra time will be used to polish The Rogue Prince of Persia even more, add "even more cool things," and fix some bugs. It also notes the Day One patch for the game was getting big and this extra time will give the team more time to test it (and lower the team's stress as a result).

Game Informer went hands-on with the game recently and loved what we played – you can read our preview impressions of The Rogue Prince of Persia here. If you're curious how it looks in action, watch this New Gameplay Today all about The Rogue Prince of Persia. For more, check out our discussion with Evil Empire about the difference between a roguelike and a rogue-lite. 

Are you going to check out The Rogue Prince of Persia later this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Rogue Prince of Persia

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

May 27 

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

