
  The Crew Motorfest | New Gameplay Today






            Join Wesley LeBlanc, Marcus Stewart, and Kyle Hilliard as we discuss The Crew Motorfest, Ubisoft's upcoming threequel in its open-world racing series that began back in 2014 with The Crew. Wesley played roughly four hours of the game in a hands-on remote preview to learn more about its open world Oahu, Hawaii, various vehicles, racing playlists, Main Stage mode, and more. 

Enjoy more than 15 minutes of new gameplay from The Crew Motorsport in the latest NGT below: 

Ubisoft Ivory Tower developed both 2014's The Crew and 2018's The Crew 2, and the Lyon, France-based studio returns to developer The Crew Motorfest. Unlike the first two games in the series, which feature maps spanning the entire United States, The Crew Motorfest takes place in just one state: Hawaii. The island of Oahu, Hawaii, to be specific, and it features Honolulu, plenty of beautiful beaches, mountain paths to drift through, and more. 

In our NGT for The Crew Motorfest, we showcase some gameplay from the Vintage Garage playlist, which is a racing playlist devoted to vintage cars from as far back as the 1950s, the Made in Japan playlist, which is all about Japanese street racing, and a boat race on the ocean surrounding the island. 

For more about The Crew Motorfest, read Game Informer's full preview here. 

The Crew Motorfest hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on September 14, 2023. 

For more previews and discussions of some of the biggest games of 2023 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for NGTs about Ra Ra Boom, Double Dragon Gaiden: Rise of the Dragons, Mortal Kombat 1, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, XDefiant, and Sea of Stars.

Are you excited for The Crew Motorfest? Let us know in the comments below!

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

The Crew Motorfest

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

September 14, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

