
  The Voice Of Final Fantasy XVI's Cid Will Play Galactus In Marvel's Fantastic Four Movie






            Marvel Studios has cast Ralph Ineson as the planet-eating Galactus for The Fantastic Four. PlayStation 5 players might recognize that name as the voice of Cidolfus Telamon, aka Cid, in Final Fantasy XVI. This casting comes from The Hollywood Reporter, which reports that the production will begin shooting mid-summer in England. 

Ineson, whom you might also know from The VVitch, The Northman, and The Creator, joins a star-studded cast for the Marvel Cinematic Universe's first film about Marvel's First Family, which features Pedro Pascal (HBO's The Last of Us) as Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic, Vanessa Kirby (Mission Impossible: Dead Reckoning) as Sue Storm/Invisible Woman, Joseph Quinn (Stranger Things) as Johnny Storm/Human Torch, and Ebon Moss-Bachrach (The Bear), as Ben Grimm/The Thing. Joining Ineson is a female Silver Surfer played by Julia Garner (Ozark).

Paul Walter Hauser (Cobra Kai) and John Malkovich (Being John Malkovich) will also appear in The Fantastic Four, although their roles are currently undisclosed. 

If you've played FFXVI, you already know Ineson has an incredible voice, certainly perfect for the role of a massive galactic entity that devours planets; we can't wait to see what he does as Galactus when The Fantastic Four hits theaters on July 25, 2025. 

For more, read Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI review, and then read Game Informer's exclusive interview with Final Fantasy XVI producer Naoki Yoshida about lessons learned, Clive's reception, loose ends, and more. Be sure to check out Game Informer's Final Fantasy XVI coverage hub for our exclusive cover story, behind-the-scenes details, video interviews, and more. 

[Source: The Hollywood Reporter]

Do you think Ralph Ineson will make a good Galactus? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XVI

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

June 22, 2023 (PlayStation 5), TBA (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

