
  The Star Named EOS Is A Wholesome Photography-Based Puzzle Game Releasing Next Month






            Silver Lining Studio, the developer of Behind The Frame, has revealed its next game, The Star Named EOS, will launch next month. More specifically, the narrative-driven photography-based puzzle game will launch on July 23 on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC. 

Silver Lining revealed this during today's Wholesome Direct, during which it also showcased some new gameplay from The Star Named EOS. In the gameplay trailer, we see more of this game's beautiful hand-drawn world, unique puzzles solved through photography, and more. 

Check it out for yourself in The Star Named EOS release date trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

You might recognize someone in the trailer, too, as the main character's mother is voiced by Suzie Yeung, who voices Yuffie in Final Fantasy VII Remake and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth. The Japanese dub features the voice of Aoi Yūki, who has voiced characters in Persona 5, Genshin Impact, and more, and the Chinese voice-over is performed by Shandy Ma, who has appeared in more than 20,000 commercials and TV shows. 

"The Star Named EOS is a story-driven puzzle game centered on a love for photography and the pursuit of memory," a press release reads. "As a child, Dei regularly received letters from his mother when she was traveling, each of which came enclosed with a memorable snapshot of the location she was visiting. But one day, Dei notices something peculiar about one of the photographs she left behind, putting everything he believes to the test. Now, guided by his mother's voice deep within himself, it's time for Dei to set out on his own to learn the truth about his family and confront the echoes of the past." 

Here are some additional screenshots from The Star Named EOS: 

The Star Named EOS hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC on July 23. If you're curious about the game, you can download its Steam demo right now. 

Are you going to check out The Star Named EOS next month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Star Named EOS

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 23, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

