
  The Casting Of Frank Stone Is Supermassive's Single-Player Horror Game Set In The Dead By Daylight Universe






            Earlier this year, Supermassive Games, the team behind The Quarry, The Dark Pictures Anthology, and Until Dawn, announced it was collaborating with Behaviour Interactive to create a single-player game set in the latter's Dead by Daylight universe. After teasing an appearance at The Game Awards 2023 yesterday online, the teams have officially revealed The Casting of Frank Stone. It hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC sometime in 2024.

"The shadow of Frank Stone looms over Cedar Hills, a town forever altered by his violent past," a press release reads. "As a group of young friends are about to discover, Stone's blood-soaked legacy cuts deep, leaving scars across families, generations, and the very fabric of reality itself." 

Check out The Casting of Frank Stone reveal trailer for yourself below: 

The Casting of Frank Stone is set in Cedar Hills, Oregon. In the depths of a steel mill, the gruesome crimes of a sadistic killer spawn horrors beyond comprehension, according to a press release. Players will dive into the mysteries of these horrors with an all-new cast of characters in the Dead by Daylight universe. In classic Supermassive Games fashion, every decision players make shapes the story and impacts the fate of its various characters.  

Behaviour Interactive head of partnerships Mathieu Côté says the team knows its players have been interested in single-player narrative experiences for some time, noting that it's "excited to expand the Dead by Daylight universe and explore new territory with Supermassive Games, a studio that is at the forefront of modern video game storytelling." 

Supermassive Games studio director Steve Goss said in yesterday's tease that this game is a "brand-new, single-player interactive story game set in the terrifying omniverse of Dead by Daylight." Supermassive Games executive producer Traci Tufte adds, "Our game will be set outside the Entity's Realm and feature the story of a new cast of characters who players will follow for an unprecedented experience beyond the fog." 

The Casting of Frank Stone hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC via Steam, the Epic Games Store, and the Microsoft Store in 2024. 

Supermassive Games is also working on Little Nightmares III, which we learned about during Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023, also created and hosted by The Game Awards 2023's Geoff Keighley. Check out 18 minutes of unsettling Little Nightmares III co-op gameplay here. 

Are you excited about The Casting of Frank Stone? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Casting of Frank Stone

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

