
  The Last Of Us Game's Tess Actor, Annie Wersching, Dies At 45






            The actor for the video game version of Tess in The Last of Us, Annie Wersching, has died. She was 45. 

Wersching was diagnosed with cancer in the summer of 2020 and she died following a two-year battle against it yesterday, January 29. She is survived by her husband Stephen and her three children, Freddie, Ozzie, and Archie. A GoFundMe has been created to help raise money for Wersching's family. 

In the video game industry, Wersching is perhaps best known for her role as Tess in Naughty Dog's 2013 hit, The Last of Us, but she was also known for her roles in 24 and Bosch, as reported by Variety. Many shared their love of Wersching yesterday following the news of her death, including The Last of Us co-creator and director Neil Druckmann. 

"I miss my silly friend who helped bring Tess to life. Annie, you left us way too soon. You will forever be part of the TLoU & Naughty Dog family." 

I miss my silly friend who helped bring Tess to life. Annie, you left us way too soon. You will forever be part of the TLoU & Naughty Dog family! 💔

TLoU fans… let’s show what we’re made of. Please consider donating to her kids’ gofundme: https://t.co/3QTnZtBY4B pic.twitter.com/baNHc1wdCT
— Neil Druckmann (@Neil_Druckmann) January 29, 2023

Wersching was born in St. Louis, Missouri, and Variety reports that her first screen credit happened at 24 years old in a 2002 episode of Star Trek: Enterprise. From there, Wersching appeared in shows like Frasier, Supernatural, and Charmed, before she received recurring roles in General Hospital and 24. She played Tess in The Last of Us in 2013 and was hopefully able to watch Anna Torv's depiction of her character in HBO's The Last of Us over the past two few weeks. 

[Source: Variety]

The staff at Game Informer extends their condolences to Wersching's family. 

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part I

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

September 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5), March 3, 2023 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

