
  The Last Of Us Part II Remastered Hits PS5 This January With $10 Upgrade Option






            PlayStation and developer Naughty Dog have revealed The Last of Us Part II Remastered, and it hits PlayStation 5 exclusively on January 19, 2024. It includes all the visual and performance upgrades you'd expect, like 4K resolution and an unlocked frame rate option for TVs that support variable refresh rate, as well as a new roguelike mode and more. 

"The engrossing campaign returns alongside technological improvements, new modes, and new behind-the-scenes features that will deepen your understanding of Part II's creation," a Naughty Dog blog post reads. 

Check out what The Last of Us Part II Remastered looks like in the announcement trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Perhaps the biggest surprise of this remaster is a new mode called No Return. Naughty Dog describes it as a roguelike survival mode "designed to let players prove their mettle in randomized encounters" and experience the game's combat in new ways. It includes various playable characters, too, some of which are playable for the first ever in The Last of Us franchise, and each features unique traits to suit different playstyles, too. 

"Players will chart their own course on each run, choosing between various stealth and combat encounters that will pit you against a range of enemies, with unique twists that can add new, unexpected factors to any given encounter," a blog post reads. 

Each run gives players the chance to choose the rewards they want, how they want to spec out their character, and more. And the more you play, the more characters and skins you unlock. Plus, you can customize your runs and compete on a global leaderboard as part of a Daily Run, which requires an internet connection. 

If you've played The Last of Us Part II, you know it features a playable guitar. This remaster fleshes out that feature with a new Free Play mode, "[It will] let you strum the strings across a host of unlockable instruments, use audio FX pedals to modulate your performance, and play as different characters in several in-game locations to customize the mode and feel of your set." 

Another big addition is a new set of Lost Levels, which allows players to experience playable sequences previously cut from the game. Naughty Dog says these aren't fully finished levels, "but rather, early-development slices that not only let you see some new glimpses of Part II's world, but also include embedded developer commentary to give them richer context." 

The entire game's cutscenes feature newly recorded director's commentary from director Neil Druckmann, narrative lead Halley Gross, and actors like Troy Baker (Joel), Ashley Johnson (Ellie), and Laura Bailey (Abby). 

On the remaster side of things, Naughty Dog says this new version of The Last of Us Part II features "enhanced graphics, including native 4K output in Fidelity Mode, 1440p upscaled to 4K in Performance Mode, an Unlocked Framerate option for TVs that support VRR, increased texture resolution, increased Level-of-Detail distances, improved shadow quality, animation sampling rate, and more." It also features DualSense features like haptic feedback and adaptive trigger integration and additional accessibility options like Descriptive Audio and Speech to Vibration. 

The unlockable Speedrun Mode from The Last of Us Part I (the remake) returns in The Last of Us Part II Remastered, too. In this remaster, you can also unlock bonus skins for Ellie, Abby, and their weapons, all usable in the game's newly enhanced Photo Mode. 

Finally, The Last of Us Part II Remastered is getting a W.L.F Edition that you can check out below – it includes the game, a steelbook case, digital content, 47 Society of Champion trading cards, a set of enamel pins, and a Washington Liberation Front patch. 

If you don't want to buy this new edition because you already own The Last of Us Part II on PlayStation 4, you can upgrade to a digital version of The Last of Us Part II Remastered for $10. 

The Last of Us Part II Remastered hits PS5 exclusively on January 19, 2024.

For more about the game, read Game Informer's The Last of Us Part II review and then read about how HBO's The Last of Us Season 2, which will adapt part of The Last of Us Part II, is set to premiere in 2025. After that, read about how Naughty Dog reportedly laid off at least 25 employees in October while its Last of Us multiplayer game is "on ice." 

Are you picking up The Last of Us Part II Remastered next year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part II Remastered 

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

