
  The Latest Elden Ring: Shadow Of The Erdtree Update Should Make Your Journey A Bit Easier






            The one and only Elden Ring expansion we're getting, Shadow of the Erdtree, launched last week and thousands of Tarnished went to the shadow realm to take on dozens of new enemies, bosses, and more. Now, just a few days later, developer From Software has released a new patch for the game that should make Shadow of the Erdtree a bit easier. 

Now live, Calibration Update 1.12.2 targets the scaling of the attack and damage negation given to players with each Shadow Realm Blessing upgrade. Here's what's changed: 

The attack and damage negation has been increased for the first half of the maximum amount of Blessing enhancements, and the second half will now be more gradual. 
The attack and damage negation granted by the final level of Blessing enhancements has been slightly increased. 

This patch should apply automatically like any other Elden Ring update but if it doesn't – the Calibration Version listed at the bottom right reads "1.12.2" if it has – select "LOGIN" and that will apply the latest version of the game. 

The only other thing this update contains is word from From Software on a confirmed bug where the raytracing settings of Shadow of the Erdtree are automatically enabled (if you've previously loaded save data from previous game versions), which is causing framerate issues for some players. If you're encountering said issues, check to see if you have raytracing on or off in the game's system graphical settings. 

This patch arrives after one that hit the game last week, which added new hairtsyles, inventory features, balance adjustments, and more to Elden Ring ahead of Shadow of the Erdtree's launch. 

For more about the game, read Game Informer's Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree review, and then check out this interview where From Software's Hidetaka Miyazaki discusses his approach to difficulty in games. 

What do you think of this update? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

