
  Tomb Raider TV Series Written By Fleabag's Phoebe Waller-Bridge Ordered By Amazon Prime Video






            Amazon has ordered a new Tomb Raider TV series to production, and it will be written and produced by Fleabag star and writer Phoebe Waller-Bridge, who also starred in last year's Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. Like Amazon's Fallout series, this Tomb Raider show will premiere exclusively on Prime Video to more than 240 countries and territories around the world. 

This series order arrives as part of a larger deal between Amazon MGM Studios and Tomb Raider reboot developer Crystal Dynamics, which is currently working on a new Tomb Raider game in Unreal Engine 5. In December of 2022, we learned Amazon Games will publish that in-development Tomb Raider game, which Amazon describes as a "single-player, narrative-driven adventure that will add a new chapter to Lara Croft's story in the Tomb Raider series." 

Phoebe Waller-Bridge as Helena Shaw in Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny

"With great IP, the possibilities are endless," Amazon Games vice president Christoph Hartmann writes in a press release. "The richness and depth of the fiction allows the Tomb Raider series from Prime Video and the video game from Amazon Games to tell separate stories about Lara Croft's adventures. We're honored that Crystal Dynamics has entrusted Amazon with this iconic franchise, and we're looking forward to seeing where this collaboration takes us." 

This is the second upcoming TV adaptation to star the iconic treasure hunter. Netflix's animated series Tomb Raider: The Legend of Lara Croft, starring Haley Atwell, is set to premiere sometime this year. That particular show is set within the continuity of Crystal Dynamic's reboot trilogy, taking place after the events of Shadow of the Tomb Raider. 

If you're curious about Crystal Dynamics' recent Tomb Raider reboot, you can pick up Tomb Raider: Game of the Year Edition on PC via GOG for free if you're an Amazon Prime member throughout May. For more, read Game Informer’s thoughts on the most recent Tomb Raider game in our Shadow of the Tomb Raider review

      Products In This Article

Tomb Raider

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

March 5, 2013

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

