
  Trace Memory And Its Wii Sequel That Never Hit The States Come To Switch In Another Code: Recollection






            Another Code: Two Memories, or Trace Memory as it's known in North America, is a Nintendo DS game that launched on the handheld device way back in 2005. Its sequel, Another Code: R – Journey Into Lost Memories, launched on the Wii in 2009, but it never came to North America. Now, players can experience both games when Another Code: Recollection hits Switch in January. 

Another Code: Recollection is an enhanced collection of Trace Memory and Another Code: R launching on Switch on January 19, 2024. During today's Nintendo Direct, Nintendo revealed this collection of games with a new trailer showing enhanced visuals while pulling back the curtains on protagonist Ashley, who is traveling to the remote Blood Edward Island in search of her father. 

Check out the Another Code: Recollection reveal trailer for yourself below: 

After Ashley receives a letter from her father, who she believes to be dead, a chain of mysteries and visions from the past is set off, sending her to Blood Edward Island. There, Ashley must investigate her surroundings while solving puzzles to reveal the truth. Another Code: R completes Ashley's tale. In it, she journeys to Lake Juliet two years after the events of Trace Memory to uncover the hidden truth surrounding her mother. 

"This collection includes fully enhanced versions of both original games, featuring overhauled visuals, fully explorable environments, new voice acting, puzzles, music, and more," Nintendo's description of the game reads. "Optional hint and navigation systems have been added to help players new to adventure games." 

Another Code: Recollection will cost $59.99 and launch on Switch on January 19, 2024. 

Have you ever played these games? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Another Code: Recollection

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

