
  Ubisoft Forward Confirmed For June, Same Week As Summer Game Fest






            Ubisoft Forward will return to Los Angeles this summer during the same week as Geoff Keighley's annual Summer Game Fest event, the company has revealed. More specifically, Ubisoft Forward will take place on Monday, June 10. 

While Ubisoft Forward and Summer Game Fest aren't technically connected, they typically take place during the same time frame in LA, and this year is no different. With Summer Game Fest's livestream set for June 7, with the invite-only media and influencer event for hands-on gameplay with upcoming games set for June 8 through June 10, it seems press, influencers, and fans will cap off the summer's gaming streams with Ubisoft Forward. 

It’s back ✨

Join us live from Los Angeles for #UbiForward on June 10 for updates and upcoming releases! pic.twitter.com/PevpR3rfvH
— Ubisoft (@Ubisoft) April 3, 2024

As for what to expect, Ubisoft hasn't shared anything. However, with a slew of upcoming and in-development games like Star Wars Outlaws, Assassin's Creed Codename Red, Assassin's Creed Codename Hexe, XDefiant, and The Division Heartland, there's plenty we might see at this year's Ubisoft Forward event. Only time will tell. 

In the meantime, read about the reveal of Assassin's Creed Codename Red and Codename Hexe, and then check out the gameplay debut of Star Wars Outlaws. After that, check out our hands-on gameplay with XDefiant, and then watch the latest trailer for The Division Heartland. 

What do you hope to see at Ubisoft Forward this year? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Codename Hexe

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Assassin's Creed Shadows

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, Mac

Release Date:

November 15, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Star Wars Outlaws

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 30, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

