
  Ubisoft's Free-To-Play FPS XDefiant Finally Gets Release Date And It's This Month






            XDefiant, the free-to-play first person shooter starring factions across Ubisoft's catalogue of franchises, finally has a release date and it's out very soon. Ubisoft announced today that XDefiant drops onto PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC (via Ubisoft Connect) on May 21. 

This is the day the XDefiant preseason will take begin, giving players a chance to enjoy the shooter before its official first season begins. This release date reveal follows various betas and tests for the game, which at one point, resulted in the game getting indefinitely delayed last year. 

"Thank you to everyone who participated in the Server Test Session," an XDefiant blog post reads. "It was exciting to see all the love for the game and the great feedback that was shared. Coming out of the test, we are excited to say that we will launch our Preseason on May 21 on PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S. Preseason will last 6 weeks before going into our seasonal cadence." 

As for that seasonal cadence, Ubisoft has already outlined the first four season, which together will encompass the game's Year 1 roadmap. You can check it out below: 

As for what to expect in XDefiant's preseason, there's a lot of content on offer, and it's all free: 

Factions

Echelon (Splinter Cell)
Phantoms (Ghost Recon Phantoms)
Cleaners (The Division)
Libertad (Far Cry 6)
Dedsec (Watch Dogs 2, after unlocking or purchasing)
Maps

Arena
Attica Heights
Dumbo
Echelon HQ
Emporium
Liberty
Mayday
Meltdown
Midway
Nudleplex
Pueblito
Showtime
Times Square
Zoo
Modes

Domination
Hot Shot
Occupy
Escort
Zone Control
Ubisoft says a new Ranked Mode Practice Playlist will be live in the preseason, too, giving players a practice go at the game's upcoming ranked mode where players battle it out in 4v4 competitive matches. This playlist will include 4v4 versions of Domination, Occupy, Escort, and Zone Control. 

All rewards earned during the previously held Server Test Sessions and Insider Sessions will be available at launch in the preseason. 

Here's another look at what to expect in XDefiant's 6-week preseason:

For more about the game, read Game Informer's XDefiant impressions after going hands-on with the game, and then check out this XDefiant New Gameplay Today for a look at how it plays. 

Are you hopping into XDefiant later this month? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

XDefiant

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

May 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

