
  Ubisoft Indefinitely Delays XDefiant Preseason Launch






            Ubisoft revealed its "fast-paced firefights meets punk rock mosh pits" first-person shooter, Tom Clancy's XDefiant, in 2021. It's a free-to-play shooter that features factions from different Ubisoft properties, like Splinter Cell, Watch Dogs, The Division, and Far Cry. We went hands-on with XDefiant earlier this year and came away impressed with the shooter. Players enjoyed an open beta back in June, and the full game was set to launch in the summer, but now, developer Ubisoft San Francisco has delayed its preseason launch indefinitely. 

The team announced this on Twitter yesterday, revealing that the recent Public Test Session was a success but highlighted some inconsistencies in the game experience it wants to address before the preseason launch. As such, the preseason launch has been delayed to a later unspecified date. 

Here's Ubisoft's full statement on the XDefiant preseason launch delay: 

"Thank you to everyone who participated in our recent Public Test Session and continues to stand alongside us as we build XDefiant. The PTS once again showed us your appreciation for our fast-paced gunplay, uniquely crafted maps, objective-driven modes, and iconic Faction roster. 

"But it also surfaced some inconsistencies in the game experience that we need to address prior to launching our Preseason. So we've made the hard decision to delay the Preseason of XDefiant. 

"The team will continue working to address these issues and testing them to make sure we deliver on our goal of being a best-in-class arcade shooter. We will share more information about Preseason and testing as it comes. 

"Thanks again for your support – we're working hard to make something really special and we couldn't do it without you." 

An update on XDefiant- pic.twitter.com/3orSnspmp6
— XDefiant (@PlayXDefiant) October 9, 2023

As you can see, Ubisoft doesn't indicate when to expect the Preseason launch to happen, making this an indefinite delay. 

In the meantime, watch Game Informer's XDefiant New Gameplay Today and then read our XDefiant impressions after going hands-on with the game earlier this year. 

Have you played XDefiant? Let us know what you think of it in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

XDefiant

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

