
  Ubisoft Announces Tom Clancy's The Division 3, Appoints New Series Producer 






            Ubisoft has announced Tom Clancy's The Division 3 and Massive Entertainment, the Sweden-based company behind the first two Division games and the upcoming Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, is developing it. The studio announced this in a new post on Twitter today, linking to a blog discussing the threequel. In it, Ubisoft reveals that Star Wars Outlaws creative director Julian Gerighty will take over as The Division brand's executive producer once Outlaws ships. 

Gerighty joined The Division team as an associate creative director in 2014. After Massive shipped the first Division game, Gerighty moved onto Tom Clancy's The Division 2 as creative director. As executive producer of the brand, Gerighty will work on The Division 3 and other projects set in The Division universe like Tom Clancy's The Division Resurgence on mobile and the survival-action shooter, Tom Clancy's The Division Heartland. 

Julian Gerighty has been appointed Executive Producer for the Tom Clancy’s The Division brand. Julian will oversee all games and products, including Tom Clancy’s The Division 3, led by Massive Entertainment who is actively building a team for the game.

👉 https://t.co/e8icWFKhcd pic.twitter.com/BadrtuFiEe
— Massive Entertainment - A Ubisoft Studio 🎮 (@UbiMassive) September 21, 2023

Ubisoft says The Division 2 will remain "well supported" even while Massive works on The Division 3. 

"We may have over 40 million players, but The Division is still in its early years as a franchise," Gerighty writes in the Ubisoft blog. "There are so many incredible stories to tell, places to explore, and people to protect. 

"I think that we delivered that with Tom Clancy's The Division's cutting-edge visuals, incredible gameplay, and promise to the player that they can't get this experience anywhere else, and then again with Tom Clancy's The Division 2. It's about refinement, it's about pushing the quality bar consistently forward." 

Gerighty will remain on Star Wars Outlaws until it launches sometime next year. 

For more, read Game Informer's Star Wars Outlaws preview and then read Game Informer's review of Tom Clancy's The Division 2. 

Are you excited for a third Division game? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

The Division 3

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

The Division 2

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

March 15, 2019 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), March 17, 2020 (Stadia)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

