
  Underwater Soulslike Another Crab's Treasure Gets Steam Demo Tomorrow






            Developer Aggro Crab, the studio behind 2020's Going Under and the publisher of 2021's Subway Midnight,  revealed Another Crab's Treasure during a Nintendo Direct last year. It garnered a lot of attention, especially from those Soulslike players who were patiently awaiting a team to create an underwater one where you play as a crab. Now, you can check out Another Crab's Treasure for yourself with a new Steam demo that goes live tomorrow, October 3. 

The studio says this demo will feature two explorable areas: The Moon Caves, which is Another Crab's Treasure's tutorial area, and The Expired Grove. 

In our Steam Demo, you'll explore TWO different areas:

✨The Moon Caves (Tutorial)
AND
🪸 The Expired Grove

COMING OCTOBER 3RD. THAT'S TOMORROW. pic.twitter.com/yieZU2kEy6
— AGGRO CRAB (@AggroCrabGames) October 2, 2023

If you haven't yet seen this game in action, check out the latest Another Crab's Treasure trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

As you can see from the trailer above, Another Crab's Treasure is set to hit Xbox Game Pass when it launches on Xbox Series X/S and Xbox One next year. It will also launch on Switch and PC at the same time. Aggro Crab has not revealed a release date for the game. 

Are you going to check out this demo for Another Crab's Treasure tomorrow? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Another Crab's Treasure

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

April 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

