
  Universal Orlando Confirms Three Super Nintendo World Rides, Including Jumping Donkey Kong Coaster






            Universal Orlando Resort has released a new video detailing what to expect at its Florida-based Super Nintendo World when it opens as a land in its Epic Universe theme park next year. In it, the company confirms the land will have three rides, including the Donkey Kong Mine Cart Madness coaster that's expected to open later this year in Osaka, Japan's Super Nintendo World. 

The video includes digital fly-overs of the park, showing viewers what it will look like when it opens next year. If you've seen Super Nintendo World in Japan, this park looks nearly identical, with both the Donkey Kong Country (and mine cart coaster) section and the Mushroom Kingdom with Peach's Castle, Mt. Beanpole, the Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge augmented-reality ride and Yoshi's Adventure dark ride. 

Check it out for yourself in the new Super Nintendo World overview video below: 

As you can see, the Donkey Kong Mine Cart Madness coaster will feature state-of-the-art track technology that allows it to create the illusion that riders will actually jump off the tracks, just like in the Donkey Kong Country games. 

Like in Hollywood's Super Nintendo World, which does not have the Yoshi's Adventure ride or the Donkey Kong expansion as a result of space at the location, and Osaka's Super Nintendo World, guests can purchase Power-Up Bands to play in interactive Key Challenges to earn coins and more. Plus, returning locations like the Toadstool Cafe restaurant and more will be at Orlando's iteration of the park. 

Here's a look at some of the locations to expect when Universal Epic Universe opens next year: 

For more details about the park, read Game Informer's breakdown of everything coming to Epic Universe next year. After that, check out photos from our visit to Japan's Super Nintendo World, and then watch this vlog of our day at the theme park. 

Are you excited for Epic Universe and Orlando's Super Nintendo World? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze

Platform:

Switch, Wii U

Release Date:

May 4, 2018

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

