
  Until Dawn Movie Adaptation Announced, Annabelle: Creation's David F. Sandberg To Direct






            Developer Supermassive Games' branching-narrative horror, Until Dawn, which exclusively hit PlayStation in 2015, is the latest video game to get the film adaptation treatment. The Hollywood Reporter reports that Shazam! and Annabelle: Creation director David F. Sandberg will direct the Until Dawn movie. 

It, Annabelle, and The Nun screenwriter Gary Dauberman is "doing a pass on the script," which was originally written by The Invitation writer Blair Butler, according to THR. This Until Dawn movie adaptation is being produced by Screen Gems and PlayStation Productions, two divisions within the wider Sony company. It is described as an R-rated horror movie. 

Notably, Until Dawn used various movie and television actors for its cast, including Rami Malek, Hayden Panettiere, Jordan Fisher, and more. There's no word about whether this adaptation will bring back any of them to reprise their roles. 

While Sandberg is perhaps best known as the director of both Shazam! and Shazam: Fury of the Gods, his moviemaking starts in horror; he made Closet Space and Lights Out (adapted from his Lights Out short film) in 2016 before directing Annabelle: Creation in 2017. His latest movie was Shazam: Fury of the Gods, which hit theaters last year. 

This Until Dawn movie will join a slew of other PlayStation Production adaptations, including last year's Gran Turismo movie, The Last of Us TV series for HBO (with a second season arriving next year), and Peacock's Twisted Metal show, which has been renewed for a second season. These adaptations join a bigger effort of bringing video games to the silver screen and TVs at home, including 2023's The Super Mario Bros. Movie, and 2022's Halo: The Series (Season 2 promises the fall of Reach storyline and premieres next month).

For more, read Game Informer's review of Until Dawn, and then check out our thoughts on its PlayStation VR spin-off, Until Dawn: Rush of Blood. Supermassive released a spiritual successor to Until Dawn in 2022 called The Quarry – read Game Informer's review here – but its next game is Little Nightmares III, which is due out sometime this year. 

[Source: The Hollywood Reporter]

Do you think Until Dawn will make a good video game adaptation? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Until Dawn

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

August 25, 2015

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

