
  Update: Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition Is Real And It's Out Next Week






            Update, 3:42 p.m., 6/20/24:

Earlier today, Ubisoft accidentally posted a trailer for Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition alongside news the game would be coming to all platforms next week. However, shortly after, it deleted the post. Now, Ubisoft has reposted the news, confirming Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition is, in fact, real and launching on PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC on June 25. 

Check out the trailer for yourself in the announcement below: 

Smile for the camera 📸

You'll be able to relive Jade's adventures in Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition, coming June 25! pic.twitter.com/xzubaKSDYI
— Ubisoft (@Ubisoft) June 20, 2024

The original story continues below...

Original story, 2:22 p.m., 6/20/24:

Last year, an Xbox store listing for Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition accidentally went live, with Ubisoft later stating it went up early due to a "technical error." Now, in what appears to be another technical error of sorts, Ubisoft might have accidentally revealed Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition launches June 25. 

Earlier today, the official Ubisoft X (formerly Twitter) account posted a trailer for the game, which runs for nearly two minutes and features a look at the game's seemingly remastered visuals and performance, alongside the following text: "You'll be able to relive Jade's adventures in Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition, coming June 25." That post is no longer available, as Ubisoft has deleted it. Nonetheless, June 25 is next Tuesday so it's possible this beloved classic is coming to PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC in just a few days. 

While the Ubisoft post has since been deleted, some X users were able to grab the trailer, and you can check it out below: 

Surprise ! Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition sortira le 25 Juin, soit mardi prochain ! pic.twitter.com/MI8CjtIjEb
— Kayane (@Kayane) June 20, 2024

As you can see, the game will feature up to 4K/60 FPS resolution and performance, an art gallery, and other features, and it's due out on "all platforms" June 25. Ubisoft has not commented on the deleted tweet, but if the game is, in fact, coming out next week, we'll likely learn more about it very soon. 

Strangely, amongst Ubisoft's silence on the deleted announcement, Limited Run Games has announced it is publishing a physical edition run of Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition, due out on July 12 on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, and Switch. 

Expose a terrible government conspiracy in this 20th anniversary edition of a beloved sixth-gen action title! Beyond Good and Evil 20th Anniversary Edition will receive physical copies and collector's editions from Limited Run this July! pic.twitter.com/A1RJ8VG7Lb
— Limited Run Games (@LimitedRunGames) June 20, 2024

In the meantime, read our thoughts on the game's HD remake from 2011 in Game Informer's Beyond Good & Evil HD review here. 

Are you excited for an anniversary edition of Beyond Good & Evil? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 25, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

