
  Vampire Survivors Free Whiteout Update Brings New Stage, Character, Weapon, And More






            Vampire Survivors developer Poncle has revealed a new "Whiteout" update coming to the game soon, and it brings with it a new snowy stage, character, weapon, and more. Alongside this news, Poncle released a short teaser of what awaits survivors in the Whiteout update, and it looks like a frosty new take on the Vampire Survivors arcade action. Unlike the Tides of the Foscari DLC that was released earlier this year for $2, this Whiteout update will be free on all platforms where you can play Vampire Survivors. 

"It's the first trailer for Whiteout, the new free update we're working on (patch v1.7)," Poncle's announcement tweet reads. "Get ready for a frosty new stage, a new character, weapon, and more. Coming soon to all platforms." 

Check out the Vampire Survivors Whiteout update trailer for yourself below: 

Omg we are having a super clumsy day and dropped something!!

It's the first trailer for Whiteout, the new free update we're working on (patch v1.7). Get ready for a frosty new stage, a new character, weapon and more. Coming soon to all platforms #VampireSurvivors pic.twitter.com/bwPrx48Hbu
— Vampire Survivors 🧛 Switch & Couch Co-op Out Now! (@poncle_vampire) September 26, 2023

There's no release date for Vampire Survivor's Whiteout update, but Poncle says it's coming soon to all platforms. 

In the meantime, read Game Informer's Vampire Survivors review.

Are you going to check out Vampire Survivors' Whiteout update? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Vampire Survivors

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

October 20, 2022 (PC), November 10, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One), December 8, 2022 (iOS, Android), August 17, 2023 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

