
  Vanillaware, The Dev Behind 13 Sentinels, Announces Tactical Fantasy RPG Unicorn Overlord






            Vanillaware released 13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim in 2020, and it was a bit of a sleeper hit. However, this team is also behind other games like Dragon's Crown and Odin Sphere. Now, Vanillaware has announced Unicorn Overlord, a new tactical fantasy RPG, and it launches March 8 on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4 as a digital-only game, and Switch.

During today's Nintendo Direct, the team announced this new game with a trailer showcasing its various characters, unique art style, and tactics gameplay. And perhaps unsurprisingly, it looks great. 

Check out the Unicorn Overlord reveal trailer for yourself below: 

Vanillaware says Unicorn Overlord combines overworld exploration with an innovative battle system that's very reminiscent of Vanillaware's combat style. In the game, you'll "traverse the vibrant world, cultivate a grand army with over 60 uniquely designed characters, and grow your renown throughout the five nations in this unique epic fantasy experience." 

In addition to a Standard Edition of Unicorn Overlord, Vanillaware will also release a Collector's Edition that includes a physical copy of the game, a premium box, a 16-bit BGM soundtrack CD that consists of two discs with 10 tracks on each, a 132-page artbook, and an original card game for Unicorn Overlord that includes 239 cards, tokens, and markers. The Collector's Edition also includes the "Atlus x Vanillaware Heraldry pack and preorder DLC, which lets you customize the Liberation Army’s flag with emblem designs from Odin Sphere, Dragon's Crown, and 13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim." 

Unicorn Overlord launches on March 8, 2024, on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4 (digital only), and Switch. 

While waiting for its release, read Game Informer's 13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim review and then check out our thoughts on Dragon's Crown. After that, read Game Informer's Odin Sphere review. 

Are you playing Unicorn Overlord day one? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Unicorn Overlord

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch

Release Date:

March 8, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

