
  Visions Of Mana Gets August Release Date In New Trailer






            Square Enis has announced that Visions of Mana launches August 29 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. It did so with a new Visions of Mana trailer that runs for nearly four minutes and features plenty of gameplay and details about the upcoming RPG. 

For the uninitiated, Visions of Mana is the first new mainline game in the franchise in 15 years. Across its 30 years of existence as a franchise, there have been 17 games, though what is now the Mana series today actually began as Final Fantasy Adventure in 1991.

In the trailer, we get a look at the five playable characters, including Soul Guard Val (voiced by Stephen Fu), Oracle of Wind Careena (voiced by Rachel Rial), Radiant Sword Morley, (voiced by Kaiji Tang), Queen of the Deep Palamena (voiced by Vanessa Lemonides), and Woodland Custodian Julei (voiced by Amber Aviles). Players can swap these characters in and out to create three-person parties and can change each character's class to attune to different elements. They won't be alone, though, as non-player companions can assist the player's party in combat, according to the trailer. 

Check out the Visions of Mana release date trailer for yourself below:

The standard edition of Visions of Mana will cost $59.99, but there is a Collector's Edition for $199.99 that features a Ramcoh plush, the Art of Mana special issue, a Visions of Mana original soundtrack collector's edition special box, and of course, the physical game. However, Square Enix says the PlayStation 4 standard and collector's edition will not be available in the U.S. 

Here's a look at the Visions of Mana Collector's Edition: 

Visions of Mana hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on August 29. 

For more about the game, watch the Visions of Mana reveal trailer, and then check out this gameplay trailer from earlier this year. 

Are you going to be playing Visions of Mana this August? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Visions of Mana

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

