
  Witchfire's Big 'Ghost Galleon' Update Adds New Classes, Enemies, Weapons, And More






            Witchfire's big "Ghost Galleon" update is now live and brings with it new classes, enemies, weapons, spells, and more. The team behind Witchfire, The Astronauts, says today's update is the "first major" patch for the game, which is why it contains so much additional content. 

Alongside new classes, enemies, weapons, and spells, the Ghost Galleon update also includes new events to take part in, a shop vendor offering novel items, and more features for players to explore. This update, like the game itself, is available right now on PC on the Epic Games Store. 

To go with today's news, The Astronauts have released a new Witchfire trailer showcasing what you can expect: 

"Alongside the new features available in today's patch, The Astronauts team has implemented careful redesigns of Witchfire's level progression and Calamity systems, based on Early Access feedback," a press release reads. "Players will begin the game with souls-style classes, granting boosts to certain stats and unique gear. Classes include Slayer, Berserker, Hunter, Shadow, Saint, and Pentinent – the final class is for Witchfire veterans seeking an extra challenge." 

The Astronauts says a new feature called Gnosis will allow players to slightly over-level without a corresponding uptick in enemy difficulty. The team says Gnosis represents the players' knowledge of dark magic and that as this occult knowledge expands, "players gain power and uncover hidden paths and events in the game." The Ghost Galleon update also adds the Calamity Meter to the HUD, which shows players the steps they take to make Calamities more likely. 

Here are some screenshots from the Ghost Galleon update:

Here's a rundown of everything available in today's Ghost Galleon update:

3 new Calamities (including the Ghost Galleon)
New activity: Vault Raiding
6 new classes
5 new weapons
4 new spells (plus 4 redesigned spells)
New shop vendor
7 new magical items (fetishes, rings, relics)
10 new or variant enemies
5 new events
6 new traps
Calamity redesign
Gnostic knowledge and level progression
Quality of Life updates and bug fixes

For a more detailed breakdown of everything new, check out the Ghost Galleon patch notes here. 

Witchfire entered Early Access back in September. It's expected to hit 1.0 this year. 

Are you checking out Witchfire's Ghost Galleon update today? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Witchfire

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

