
  Xbox Reportedly Considering Bringing Senua's Saga: Hellblade II To PS5






            Senua's Saga: Hellblade II hits Xbox Series X/S and PC later this month on May 21. However, its release arrives at a rocky period for Xbox, which just shuttered four Bethesda studios, including Hi-Fi Rush team Tango Gameworks and Redfall developer Arkane Austin. As a result, Xbox players have wondered how safe Hellblade II developer Ninja Theory might be after its sequel's release, given Hi-Fi Rush was a "break out hit" for the company but wasn't enough to keep Tango open. 

Perhaps to help boost Hellblade II's sales, Xbox is reportedly considering bringing the game to PlayStation 5, according to The Verge. The publication's Tom Warren writes, "I understand Hellblade II is another game that Microsoft has been considering for the PS5. If that ever happens, at this point, it's not clear if even that would be considered a success." 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Hellblade II coming to PS5 wouldn't be out of left field, considering Xbox has brought previously exclusive games like Grounded, Sea of Thieves, and Hi-Fi Rush to PS5 this year. However, with the launch of Hellblade II happening in just a few weeks, it seems if it does come to PS5, it will be post-launch, which lines up with Xbox's strategy in this realm thus far. 

Senua's Saga: Hellblade II hits Xbox Series X/S and PC on May 21, 2024. 

For more about the game, check out the Senua's Saga: Hellblade II PC specs and system requirements, and then read about how Senua's Saga: Hellblade II will be locked to 30 FPS on Xbox Series X/S. After that, read about how the game will have a photo mode at launch. 

[Source: The Verge]

Do you hope Xbox brings Senua's Saga: Hellblade II to PS5? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Senua's Saga: Hellblade II

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

May 21, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

