
  Xbox Games Showcase Announced For June, Followed by A Secret Direct For A Beloved Franchise






            Xbox will livestream an Xbox Games Showcase this summer. Similar to last year's Starfield Direct, the showcase will be followed by a special "Redacted" direct that will dive deep into a beloved franchise. As for when, the Xbox Games Showcase will begin at 10 a.m. PT/1 p.m. ET on June 9, with the Redacted showcase streaming immediately after. 

"Like our double feature last year with Starfield Direct, immediately following the Showcase we'll be airing a special deep-dive into the next installment of a beloved franchise," an Xbox Wire blog post reads. "We can't say much, so for now, we'll call it the Xbox Games Showcase followed by [REDACTED] direct. This will also be our first showcase featuring games from our portfolio of studios across Activision, Blizzard, Bethesda, and Xbox Game Studios, in addition to titles from our third-party partners." 

And speaking of Activision Blizzard, I'm guessing the redacted showcase is about the next Call of Duty, based on the associated image that you can see in the X (formerly Twitter) post below: 

We’re going to be talking about games of course

Tune in to the Xbox Games Showcase followed by [REDACTED] Direct on Sunday, June 9 @ 10am PT: https://t.co/z78G8h75r2 | #XboxShowcase pic.twitter.com/XgOGJy2gLv
— Xbox (@Xbox) April 30, 2024

We know another Call of Duty is coming this year, following up last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, and that logo looks very militaristic. The Capitol Building behind it adds to this guess, too, especially if the next Call of Duty is about the Gulf War, which is what the latest rumors are saying (with Black Ops series developer Treyarch up to bat). Regardless, we'll find out soon because that presentation follows the Xbox Games Showcase happening in less than two months on June 9. 

This Xbox Games Showcase will follow this year's Summer Game Fest livestream on June 7 (and takes place during SGF's media-only days, where press and influencers will play various games on-site in Los Angeles, California, from June 8 to June 10). Following the Xbox Games Showcase, Ubisoft will host another Ubisoft Forward event on June 10. 

What game do you think the redacted direct will be about? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

