
  Yes, Dragon Age: The Veilguard Has Nudity, And I've Seen It






            Dragon Age: The Veilguard will feature nudity. That's something I learned firsthand while customizing my Rook within BioWare's Edmonton, Canada, office earlier this year during my cover story visit. We were customizing a feminine Rook, and while adjusting body options - read Game Informer’s in-depth feature about Veilguard’s character creator here for more details – our Rook's shirt disappeared to let us customize things like chest size. 

And that's when Veilguard game director Corrine Busche smiled, likely knowing full well that nudity in the character creator means nudity elsewhere in the game, like in Veilguard's romances, something I know BioWare fans will be delighted to hear. "This is a mature RPG," she tells me.

I only see topless nudity in the character creator, and when I later ask BioWare if there is bottom nudity as well, I'm told that's something it wants to let fans discover for themselves in the game. Interesting answer, considering we're talking about genitalia here, but I don't push further.  Though the game's leads wouldn't share too much about romance options in the game, I have a feeling nudity will play a part in some cutscenes and that's what BioWare is alluding to. 

Nudity has been present in previous BioWare games, but it's almost always been implied. Characters are sometimes naked in romance scenes and elsewhere, but arms, legs, shadows, and pieces of scenery obscure characters' more… oogly bits. With some of those bits on full display in the character creator, I have a feeling Veilguard's romantic scenes will be the spiciest in the series' history. And the game's pretty visual design, running in EA's Frostbite engine, only adds to that. 

Okay, I think I've hit the limit that I can write the word nudity on my work computer before it gets flagged by HR or something. You'll have to wait for the game's full release this fall to learn more about nudity, romance, and more. 

For more about the game, including exclusive details, interviews, video features, and more, click the Dragon Age: The Veilguard hub button below. 

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: The Veilguard

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

