
   You Can’t Replay Halo Infinite Campaign Missions, But 343 Industries Is Working On A Feature To Change That






            You should really savor and enjoy the campaign missions you play in Halo Infinite when 343 Industries’ latest sci-fi shooter goes live tomorrow because it’ll be the only time you can play them on that save file. 

That’s because you won’t be able to replay campaign story missions in Halo Infinite on a save file where you’ve already played said campaign story missions. In order to replay campaign missions, you’ll need to start a fresh save. This might be frustrating for completionists as the campaign missions feature collectibles that are easy to miss. If you miss one, you won’t be able to go back and get it after you beat the mission. However, 343 Industries told The Verge that it’s looking to change that. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

“We haven’t announced a date but that is being worked on,” 343 Industries associate creative director Paul Crocker told The Verge. “We want to have replay that works well, and when you have a more open game, it gets a lot trickier. So we made a decision to improve the quality of the single-player campaign to ensure that, as a foundation, that it’s as strong as it possibly could be so that we could then add the other features back in.” 

If you’re looking to 100% Halo Infinite and unlock all of the campaign-related achievements in your first playthrough, it sounds like you might want to keep a guide handy just in case.

While waiting for Halo Infinite to go live, which is happening a little later than you might expect, check out our thoughts on it in Game Informer’s Halo Infinite review and then find out why it’s on Game Informer’s list of the top 10 Xbox Series X games. Check out this breakdown of the best Halo Infinite tips we’ve learned from watching TikTok after that. 

[Source: The Verge]

Are you checking out the Halo Infinite campaign tomorrow? Let us know in the comments below!

            .

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley has been writing about games professionally for years. When he's not writing about games, he's playing them (hopefully). He desperately wants a PS5 patch for Bloodborne, too, and refuses to give up hope that one's on the way.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

