
  Zack Snyder Says His Upcoming Netflix Movie, Rebel Moon, Is Getting 'Ridiculous Scale' RPG






            Zack Snyder, the director behind "Batman vs. Superman: Dawn of Justice," "Man of Steel," and more, has revealed that his upcoming Netflix movie, "Rebel Moon," is getting the game treatment. 

Snyder told The Nerd Queens podcast this alongside word that he was helping with the development of the game, as reported by Video Games Chronicle. As for the type of game, Snyder says it will be an RPG and apparently, it will have a "ridiculous scale." 

"The one thing that I'm having a really good time with – and I don't really know if I'm supposed to talk about it – is this RPG that we're doing that is just literally insane, and so immersive and so intense and so huge," he said on the podcast, according to VGC. "There's more coming, but all I'll say is that it was pitched to me – because I've always wanted to do an RPG – like, 'well, we could do it at this scale, or we could do it at ridiculous scale.'

"And I was like, 'ridiculous scale is clearly the scale that we should be doing it.'"

Snyder says the team behind the RPG said, "Well, it's going to take so much time, we've got to do all these brain dumps, you've got to tell us everything in the universe, what's happening, the science." And Snyder said he was happy to do that, telling them, "Let's go all the way." 

Snyder wrote and directed Rebel Moon and it hits Netflix this December. 

In the meantime, read about how Netflix is developing its own series based on video games, like this live-action Assassin's Creed show and this animated Gears of Wars series (alongside a live-action Gears of War film, too). 

[Source: The Nerd Queens via Video Games Chronicle]

Are you interested in playing a Rebel Moon RPG? Let us know in the comments below!

Wesley LeBlanc
Associate Editor
Wesley LeBlanc is an associate editor for Game Informer. If you have any news tips, story ideas, or more, feel free to DM him on Twitter @LeBlancWes or email him at wesleyleblanc@gameinformer.com.

Email
Twitter

