
                                          Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2
                  


  A Familiar Display Of Power




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Publisher
Bandai Namco

Developer
Dimps

Release
October 25, 2016

Rating
Teen

Last year's Dragon Ball Xenoverse was a hit with fans of the anime series, and Dimps is giving players another opportunity to relive the story of the series by jumping into yet another time traveling tale. 
Set after the events of Dragon Ball Xenoverse, this sequel presents a story where you create an all-new time-traveler who must attempt to go back and fix the repairs of your character in the first Xenoverse. Since you're creating a new character, players who choose to import their save files will actually encounter their character from Xenoverse 1.
While the gameplay looks and feels very similar to Xenoverse 1, Xenoverse 2 is bulking up its feature set. The vastly larger hub world (which is roughly seven times the size of the one found in Xenoverse 1) is just the beginning. Dimps is promising more environments, deeper character customization (including more races to choose from), and a boss battle mode that brings up to six people together to challenge one powerful opponent. We'll also see a roster that features a good mix of returning characters and new combatants.
Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 absolutely remains loyal in how it plays. Even as someone who only played a portion of Xenoverse 1 when it first launched, I was able to pick Xenoverse 2 and quickly relearn the strategies of the game and come out victorious over my A.I. opponent. Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 is set to launch on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC this year.

      Products In This Article

Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

October 25, 2016

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

