
  An Hour With Reggie Fils-Aimé | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Brian sits down with former Nintendo of America president and COO Reggie Fils-Aimé. The two dig into his time at Nintendo, stories from his interactions with the legends of the company, and his new book Disrupting the Game: From the Bronx to the Top of Nintendo. 

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Reggie Fils-Aimé (@Reggie)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:06 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:05:17 – Reggie's Pre-Nintendo Career
00:07:40 – Reggie's Famous E3 2004 Debut
00:18:03 – Reggie's Memorable First Meeting with Shigeru Miyamoto
00:24:47 – The Impact of Satoru Iwata
00:34:02 – The Success of the Wii
00:35:59 – Reggie's Leadership Lessons in Disrupting the Game
00:42:14 – Embracing the Failure of the Wii U
00:46:23 – The Success of the Switch and Reggie's Retirement
00:49:30 – Reggie's First Idea for the Book/Recording the Audiobook

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with hosts Marcus Stewart and John Carson, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time! We also have From Panel to Podcast from host Andrew Reiner, covering everything from the world of comic books, including the shows, movies, and games that spawn from them!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

