
  An In-Depth Look At Middle-earth: Shadow Of War's Skill Tree






As the hero of Middle-earth: Shadow of War, Talion becomes
stronger over the course of the story. Each time you level up toward the level
60 cap, you unlock a skill point. In addition, you can earn skill points from
side and challenge missions, as well as certain collectibles. In total,
completionists can expect to collect around 120 skill points, meaning there are
plenty of decisions to make when looking at the skill tree.
Each skill Talion has can be upgraded by choosing from two
or three unique options. For example, on one skill, I can augment it so that
draining an enemy gives me more health and wrath, or I can opt to regain
elf-shot ammunition. You can only choose one upgrade per perk at a time, but
this level of customization allows players to craft their version of Talion to complement
their playstyle.
Check out the many skills you can choose from when upgrading
Talion. A handful of skills are being kept locked away by Monolith for fear of
spoilers, but the vast majority of Talion's skills are represented in the list
below.

Combat
Execution
When your might is full, you can execute enemies.

Upgrade 1: Grim Resolve
Gain might each time you are damaged in combat.

Upgrade 2: Secret Might
Gain might for each kill while remaining undetected.

Upgrade 3: Fatal Might
Successful sword strikes gain much more might. Might fully resets after you
take damage, miss an attack, or exit combat.

Perfect Counter
Well-timed counters knock down enemies.

Upgrade 1: Rain of Arrows
Well-timed counters replenish 1 Elf-shot.

Upgrade 2: Mighty Reversal
Gain might from each counter.

Upgrade 3: Fatal Counter
Well-timed counters instantly kill enemy grunts. Ineffective against Captains
and beasts.

Critical Strike
Melee attacks have a chance of causing Critical Hits for additional damage.

Upgrade 1: Reprisal
Your Critical Strike chance increases as your Health is reduced.

Upgrade 2: Unstoppable
Your Critical Strike chance increases significantly as long as your hit streak
is above 20.

Upgrade 3: Elven Precision
Timing a button press as your strike lands greatly increases your chances of a
Critical Strike.

Ground Finisher
Decrease the amount of time it takes to perform Ground Executions on downed
enemies.

Upgrade 1: Fury
Ground executions enable you to unleash a flurry of blows by rapidly tapping
attack before finishing an enemy, gaining might on each hit.

Upgrade 2: Wraith Shield
The Wraith can counter enemies while you complete a ground execution.

Upgrade 3: Ground Drain
You can dominate or drain enemies who have been knocked down.

Brutal Aggression
Might can be double-charged, enabling Brutal Executions which cause nearby
enemies to flee in terror.

Upgrade 1: Wraith Execution
Chain executions to additional enemies. Consumes Focus for each additional
target.

Upgrade 2: Ceaseless Might
Skills that require Might no longer fully deplete Might.

Retaliation
Time your Last Chance success perfectly to instantly kill the enemy
targeting you. Does not apply to Captains, graugs, or drakes.

Upgrade 1: Adamant
Gain an additional Last Chance attempt.

Upgrade 2: Vengeful Drain
Retaliation dominates or drains your attacker.

Upgrade 3: Burst of Might
Gain full might on a perfect Last Chance.

Predator
Elven Agility
You can get a burst of speed when leaping over objects, landing, or
climbing. You can vault over a ledge at the top of a climb.

Upgrade 1: Spectral Dash
You can cross short distances or reach nearby enemies instantaneously while in
stealth. Consumes focus.

Upgrade 2: Silent Runner
You can sprint without creating sound.

Brutalize
Perform a terrifying stealth kill, causing nearby enemies to flee while
increasing both your Might and your hit streak.

Upgrade 1: Unyielding Ferocity
Using Brutalize gives a bonus to both your Might and hit streak.

Upgrade 2: Reckless Hate
Brutalize causes more enemies to flee.

Poison Tendril
You can poison grog barrels from afar.

Upgrade 1: Bursting Toxin
Grunts who drink from poisoned grog barrels explode, poisoning any nearby
enemies.

Upgrade 2: Contagion
Enemies who drink from poisoned grog barrels go berserk and attack anyone
nearby, spreading the poison.

Upgrade 3: Proximity Trigger
You can prime Morgai flies, cages, and bait to trigger when an enemy
approaches.

Wraith Chain
You can target an additional enemy during a stealth kill. Each additional
target consumes focus.

Upgrade 1: Monster Hunter
Stealth Kills can be used against Beasts.

Upgrade 2: Shadow Blade
Your first chained stealth kill consumes no Focus.

Deadly Spectre
While using attract you can leave behind a Wraith that will kill your
target.

Upgrade 1: Terrifying Presence
Your Wraith will brutalize its target.

Upgrade 2: Spirit Drain
Your Wraith will dominate or drain its target.

Ranged
Detonate
You can Shadow Strike into a firepit, detonating it and lighting nearby
enemies on fire.

Upgrade 1: Spider Song
Detonate a firepit and cause spiders to swarm the area.

Upgrade 2: Bursting Arrow
Shoot firepits to detonate them without Shadow Striking into them.

Upgrade 3: Matron's Scent
Detonate a firepit and cause ghûls to swarm the area.

Freeze Pin
Shooting an enemy's foot freezes them in place.

Upgrade 1: Brutal Cold
Freeze pin causes nearby enemies to flee in terror.

Upgrade 2: Savage Ice
Freeze pin affects olog-hai and beasts.

Upgrade 3: Deep Freeze
Freeze pin duration is doubled.

Bird of Prey
Focus is consumed at a slower rate while in the air.

Upgrade 1: Eagle Sight
Focus is consumed at a slower rate while in the air.

Upgrade 2: Talon Strike
While falling, you can aim at the ground to strike the ground with a damaging
blast that also stuns nearby enemies. Consumes Elf-shot.

Mighty Shot
When your Might is full, you can fire an explosive shot.

Upgrade 1: Firestorm
Mighty Shot causes a fire explosion.

Upgrade 2: Freeze Blast
Mighty Shot causes a frost explosion.

Upgrade 3: Venom
Mighty Shot causes a poison explosion.

Shadow Strike
Instantaneously reach an enemy to kill them or stun them. Consumes
Elf-shot.

Upgrade 1: Chain of Shadows
You can chain to additional enemies from a Shadow Strike. Consumes focus for
each additional target.

Upgrade 2: Shadow Strike Pull
Pull a targeted enemy to you and kill or stun them.

Upgrade 3: Shadow Dominate - Unlocked by completing Eltariel quests
While aiming at an enemy, you can reach them instantaneously and dominate them.

Wraith
Brace of Daggers
You can quick-throw a dagger that damages and staggers enemies.

Upgrade 1: Serrated Edge
Thrown daggers have a chance of causing critical strikes.

Upgrade 2: Swift Barrage
Three daggers can be thrown rapidly.

Upgrade 3: Rain of Blades
Throw five daggers at once to hit multiple enemies.

Elven Light
Unleash a powerful blast when your might is full, stunning and temporarily
blinding nearby enemies.

Upgrade 1: Cleansing Blaze
Elven Light also sets enemies on fire.

Upgrade 2: Winter's Breath
Elven Light also freezes enemies.

Upgrade 3: Poison Blast
Elven Light also poisons enemies.

Ice Storm
Freeze enemies, then follow with a flurry of sword strikes.

Upgrade 1: Shower of Ice
Freeze all enemies in an area in front of you. The higher your hit streak, the
larger the area of effect.

Upgrade 2: Frostbite
Ice Storm finishers also cause critical strike.

Upgrade 3: Shattering Blow
An Ice Storm finisher shatters your target, causing nearby enemies to flee in
terror.

Consume
When your Might is full, you can dominate and drain an enemy quickly during
combat.

Upgrade 1: Chain of Souls
During Consume you can dominate or drain additional enemies. Consumes focus for
each additional target.

Upgrade 2: Lord of Wrath
Consume increases Wrath.

Upgrade 3: Olog Lord
Consume works against Ologs

Treasure Hunter
- Unlocked by finding all Gondorian artifacts in the open world
Automatically collect loot from defeated enemies.

Upgrade 1: Discerning Eye
Increase your chances of high-quality gear drops from Captains or
higher-ranking Orcs.

Upgrade 2: Mind Breaker
Increases Domination speed.

Upgrade 3: Prospector
Increase your chances of receiving higher quality Gems from defeated enemies.

Mounted
Caragor Rider
Dominate and ride a broken caragor.

Upgrade 1: Pounce
Devouring enemies while in stealth restores more of your caragor's health.

Upgrade 2: Bestial Rage
You can perform an execution or howl to summon additional caragors even when
your Might is not full. Instead, your action consumes some of your mount's
health.

Graug Rider
You can dominate and ride a broken graug.

Upgrade 1: Devouring Force
Graug executions restore more of your graug's health.

Upgrade 2: Enduring Fury
Graug basic attacks gain more Might.

Call Mount
You can summon a dominated caragor and command it to attack targeted
enemies.

Upgrade 1: Dire Caragor
You can summon a Dire Caragor.

Upgrade 2: Graug Call
You can summon a graug.

Upgrade 3: Dragon Song - Unlocked by completing the Carnán quests
You can summon a drake.

Shadow Mount
Instantly mount a broken graug, caragor, or drake (Dragon Rider skill must
be unlocked) with Shadow Strike.

Upgrade 1: Caragor Breaker
Shadow Mount unbroken caragors.

Upgrade 2: Packmaster
When Shadow Mounting a broken caragor, other nearby caragors are dominated.

Dragon Rider
You can Dominate and ride a broken drake.

Upgrade 1: Soaring Rage
Your drake can shoot fireballs even when your might is not full. Instead, your
action consumes some of your mount's health.

Upgrade 2: Scales of Iron
Your drake takes far less damage from attacks.

Story
Drain
You can recover health by draining life from orcs or dominating orcs and beasts.

Upgrade 1: Domination
Drained enemies are also dominated and will fight for you.

Upgrade 2: Quiver of Souls
Draining an enemy replenishes Elf-shot.

Upgrade 3: Bright Lord's Wrath
Draining or dominating an enemy fully recovers health and gains wrath.

Spectral Glaive
You can initiate a heavy sweeping attack.

Upgrade 1: Mighty Swing
Releasing attack the moment your glaive is charged generates might for each
enemy hit.

Upgrade 2: Deadly Striker
Double-charge your glaive for more follow-up attacks.

Elven Rage
Each kill gives wrath energy. When your wrath is full, you can slow time,
making every melee strike lethal and enabling you to unleash unlimited
executions.

Upgrade 1: Final Blaze
When Elven Rage ends, a fiery blast is detonated.

Upgrade 2: Freezing Burst
When Elven Rage ends, a freezing blast is detonated.

Upgrade 3: Poisonous Wrath
When Elven Rage ends, a poisonous blast is detonated.

Shadow Strider
You can double jump while leaping. Allows you to cover wider gaps or change
direction between jumps.

Upgrade 1: Hammer of Eregion
You can vault over an Uruk and freeze them.

Upgrade 2: Waters of Lórien
Upgrade dodge to instantly flash past enemies. Consumes focus.

Upgrade 3: Eagle's Eyrie
While vaulting an enemy you can leap off their head and perform a double jump.
If Bird of Prey is unlocked, you will be able to enter Bird of Prey as you
jump.

Call Followers
Summon a group of warriors to fight alongside you. You can command your
warriors to attack targeted enemies.

Upgrade 1: Bodyguard
Assign a Captain to be your bodyguard in the army menu.

Upgrade 2: Cluster of Spiders - Unlocked by finding all Shelob memories
Summon a cluster of spiders. Spiders have poison attacks which can exploit the
weakness of a Captain or higher-ranked orc.

Upgrade 3: Iron Guard - Unlocked by completing all Gondor quests
Summoned Warriors are tougher.

Dominate Captain
Dominate a Captain whose will has been broken. Orc Captains who are higher
level than you cannot be Recruited.

Upgrade 1: Destroy Followers
You can explode the heads of nearby followers, causing enemies to flee in
terror.

Upgrade 2: Lifeblood
You can heal all nearby followers by consuming your health. Any followers who
are bleeding out are unaffected.

Upgrade 3: Enrage Followers
You can enrage nearby friendly Captains. Consumes wrath.

Click on the banner below to enter our constantly-updating hub of exclusive content.

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

