
                                          Cities: Skylines
                  				 Review


  Building On A Sturdy Foundation




Reviewed on Xbox One

Also on
PlayStation 4, Switch, Stadia, PC

Publisher
Paradox Interactive

Developer
Colossal Order

Release
March 10, 2015

Rating
Everyone

By
putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online
connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for
being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though
the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to
Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The
result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.
Disregarding
the new controls and revamped menu system, this is largely the game that
garnered so much acclaim in 2015. Starting with a small, single-road town and
building up to a bustling metropolis is just as addictive as ever. I love
selecting the perfect plot of land and trying to plan my roads, electrical
infrastructure, and sewage systems efficiently from the start. Watching your
city steadily grow as you stave off bankruptcy and other unexpected hardships
is still as satisfying as gaming accomplishments come.
The big
question with regards to the transition to Xbox One was with how the controls
would work on a gamepad. The ease with which I built a huge, sprawling city is
impressive, and a testament to how much thought the developers put into the
controls. On Xbox One, each individual build menu is placed on a hotbar at the
bottom of the screen, which is accessible using the d-pad. Once you select
something you want to build like a road or firehouse, you easily use the left analog
stick to place it.
Thanks
to the snap-on mechanics that already existed with Cities: Skylines, using the
analog stick to connect roads, electric lines, and water pipes is simple. Of
course, as with any snap-on system, the game can sometimes estimate where you
are trying to place a piece incorrectly, but with the zoom functionality placed
on the gamepad's triggers, it's simple and intuitive to zoom in to get extra
detailed with your placement of buildings, zones, and other structures.
Sorry, this video is not available
If you
want to dig deeper into the more detailed menus like economy and policies, as
well as purchase new plots of land, you just hold the Y button and it brings up
a wheel menu that allows you to easily select one of those options. Once in
there, you use the bumpers to navigate to the different screens within that
menu. Because of this, it's simple to bounce between the taxes, budget, loads,
and income/expenses screens within the economy menu.
Unfortunately,
this version is missing a key feature from the original game. You're able to
click the analog stick to pause time, but you cannot speed up the simulation.
On several occasions, I stepped away while the game was running to let my
population and money accumulate, where in the PC version I could simply speed
up time.
This
edition includes the After Dark expansion, which adds new specializations,
transportation options, a day/night cycle, and more to the base game.
Unfortunately, this package does not include the other expansions that have
come to PC, like Snowfall and Natural Disasters, which is a major missed
opportunity for this to be considered the definitive version.
Some
annoying performance-based bugs hindered the base game, but those have been largely
squashed in the two years leading up to this version's release. Outside of a
few minor hiccups in the framerate, my city's rise to prominence and inevitable
out-of-control death-spiral played out without any major technical problems.
Outside
of the lack of the more recent PC expansions and the simulation speed options,
Cities: Skylines - Xbox One Edition is every bit as good as its PC counterpart.
The mayoral planning fantasy is still intact with this version, and now easier
than ever to get into. Simply put, if you're an Xbox One owner who is a fan of
city-building simulation games, you need to check out Cities: Skylines.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptMove the exemplary city-building simulation from PC to Xbox One with the first expansion, streamlined menus, and added gamepad support
GraphicsPulling the camera all the way back to view your entire cityscape, then seamlessly zooming in on one single house looks great
SoundRun-of-the-mill background music adds little to the experience, but the city sounds more alive the closer you get to street level
PlayabilityWith streamlined menus and smooth controls that rely heavily on the analog sticks and d-pad, Cities: Skylines nailed its transition from mouse-and-keyboard controls
EntertainmentTrue to its PC reputation, Cities: Skylines is the best city-builder out there today
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Cities: Skylines

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

March 10, 2015 (PC), April 21, 2017 (Xbox One), August 15, 2017 (PlayStation 4), September 13, 2018 (Switch), May 17, 2022 (Stadia)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

