
  Cover Reveal – The Callisto Protocol






            Glen Schofield has spent the last several decades working with some of the biggest publishers on their most massive blockbusters. However, after leaving Activision, Sledgehammer Games, and the Call of Duty franchise behind a few years ago, he wanted to do something new – something uncompromised. The result is Striking Distance Studios, a new development studio Schofield founded alongside several industry veterans with whom he has worked throughout his illustrious career. While Schofield's most recent work is on the Call of Duty series, he's perhaps best known for his status as the creator of another beloved franchise: Dead Space.

With Striking Distance Studios' first game, the team capitalizes upon the expertise and experience of Schofield's team. The comparisons to Dead Space are unavoidable, but make no mistake: The Callisto Protocol is a different beast altogether. We witnessed exclusive, never-before-seen gameplay footage featuring our protagonist, Jacob Lee, trying to survive the terrors of Jupiter's second-larget moon and its suspicious prison. But that's not all; we also spent hours picking the brains of the sci-fi horror masters at Striking Distance Studios. In the story, you'll learn the origin tale of Striking Distance, the process by which it masterfully creates (and pays off) tension, and how the gameplay of The Callisto Protocol works.

However, if you've read an issue of Game Informer before, you already know there's plenty more within the pages of the magazine. Between the front and back covers, you'll find an extended look at the upcoming game, The Invincible, by Blake Hester. Meanwhile, Kimberley Wallace has a feature celebrating the anniversary of the Kingdom Hearts franchise. And if you have a graduate in your life, you'll definitely want to check out our Gamer's Graduation Gift Guide. All that and more, plus our standard suite of previews and reviews, are housed in issue #346 of Game Informer.

As usual, we also have a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming days/weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches on May 24 for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. To subscribe to either the digital or print version, click here.

      Products In This Article

The Callisto Protocol

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 2, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

