
  Cover Reveal – Super Mario Bros. Wonder






            In June, Nintendo revealed Super Mario Bros. Wonder, the first all-new 2D Mario platformer on consoles since the launch of the Wii U. In the 11 years since the last 2D game launched, we've received multiple re-releases, two Super Mario Maker titles, two mainline 3D titles, and even a mobile auto-runner. After nearly two decades of the New Super Mario Bros. series dominating the 2D side of the iconic franchise, Super Mario Bros. Wonder represents a new era for the Mushroom Kingdom crew. To celebrate the impending release of this new 2D adventure on Switch, Super Mario Bros. Wonder graces the cover of our latest issue of Game Informer.

I flew to both U.S. coasts – first New York, then Seattle – to get as much info about the game as possible. I've spent more than two hours playing Super Mario Bros. Wonder and have spoken with multiple key members of the development team. In this cover story, you'll get behind-the-scenes stories about the creation of Super Mario Bros. Wonder, exclusive hands-on with stages nobody else has played, and even a discussion on the legacy of the New Super Mario Bros. series. 

Our cover art this month features Elephant Mario, one of the new forms the company's mascot and his friends can take in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Director Shiro Mouri wanted to create a new form that would cause Mario to grow in stature, and this in-your-face representation of that vision pays homage to that earliest desire.

The Game Informer Gold cover features the same cover image with “Game Informer” in flashy, metallic gold. Each Gold issue is numbered, too, making it even more special for collectors. 

Though Super Mario Bros. Wonder is on the cover of Issue 360, there are so many other articles worth checking out within these pages. We also have in-depth features for Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, Ghostrunner 2, and Palworld. Pao Yumol investigates the current resurgence of the boomer shooter genre. Diego Nicolás Argüello digs into the intricacies of testing games in virtual reality. I was in attendance at Nintendo Live in Seattle and have my full report from Nintendo's first official U.S. fan fest, while on the other side of the country, Marcus Stewart paid a visit to Universal Orlando's new The Last of Us-themed Halloween scare house.

As usual, you'll also find the latest previews, including Marvel's Spider-Man 2, Alan Wake 2, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, Skull and Bones, and more. Plus, we have reviews of games like Mortal Kombat 1, Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, Lies of P, Starfield, and others! 

Here’s a closer look at the standard cover and Gold cover for this issue: 

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, BlueSky, and Threads accounts and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

