
  Cover Reveal – Sonic Superstars






            Sonic Superstars emerged as one of the most exciting announcements to come out of Summer Game Fest 2023, and now we're diving deeper into the exciting 2D adventure starring Sega's Blue Blur. We spent two days in Sonic Team's studio in Burbank, California playing through nearly half the game and speaking with the developers behind the next Classic Sonic title. The cover story, along with our exclusive coverage spread out over the next month, should give you all the information you need about Sonic Superstars before it comes out this fall.

Our cover art this month was created by Mark Hughes, who has done work for IDW Comics and Sega. The art depicts the four playable characters – Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, and Amy – standing in the spotlight on the front, with Dr. Eggman begrudgingly refusing to stand in the spotlight on the back. The art includes Chaos Emeralds to emphasize the new Emerald Power mechanic present in Sonic Superstars. You'll learn a lot more about the Emerald Powers, never-before-seen zones, the return of Sonic co-creator Naoto Ohshima to the series, and much more in our 12-page cover story!

But that's not all that's in this issue! Within the pages of issue 358 of Game Informer, Blake Hester delivers a profile on the fascinating career of Hi-Fi Rush's director John Johanas. Contributor Demi Phillips also has an examination of the burgeoning gaming scene in Nigeria. Meanwhile, contributor  Ben Bertoli celebrates 40 years of the Nintendo Famicom and its sometimes bizarre history. Elsewhere in the issue, Charles Harte goes in-depth with the upcoming musical RPG Stray Gods, and Kyle Hilliard has an opinion piece on wanting gaming experiences, not obligations. 

That's not even mentioning our full suite of previews, which includes Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Payday 3, Mortal Kombat 1, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, Persona 5 Tactica, Penny's Big Breakaway, Wild Card Football, and plenty more! 

Here's a closer look at this month's cover:

A limited number of Game Informer Gold versions of this issue are available, though they aren't for sale. To get your hands on a copy of this very rare version of Game Informer, check out our  Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram pages in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

Sonic Superstars

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 17, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

