
  Cover Reveal – Star Wars Outlaws






            This month, Star Wars Outlaws graces the cover of Game Informer. Regardless of your history with the series, there's no denying the impact that Star Wars has had in the pop culture landscape. The Original Trilogy inspired countless other pieces of media and the subsequent releases have all been noteworthy for one reason or another. But it was the Original Trilogy that developer Massive Entertainment – the team behind games like The Division, The Division 2, and Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora – chose to make its playground. We traveled to the coastal city of Malmö, Sweden, to learn all about the open-world scoundrel adventure set in a galaxy far, far away.

Our cover art this month, provided by Massive Entertainment, shows the protagonists of the story, Kay Vess and her companion Nix, in a cantina, presumably accepting a job. Cantinas serve as the gathering place for the types of seedy individuals Kay and Nix seek out for work. On the back cover, we get a glimpse of one of the criminal factions Kay can accept jobs for: the Pyke Syndicate. You can learn more about Kay, Nix, the syndicates they interact with, the Reputation System, and plenty more in our 12-page cover story of Star Wars Outlaws!

But that's not all that's housed within this latest issue of Game Informer! Marcus Stewart visited Bandai Namco in Irvine, California, to get his hands on Sand Land, the anticipated action title from ILCA. Speaking of the great Akira Toriyama, Kyle Hilliard takes some time in the issue to pay tribute to the legendary manga and anime icon. On the topic of hot-button issues, Wesley LeBlanc spoke with several game developers who are using artificial intelligence in different ways to learn their reasoning and try to grasp the ethics of doing so. Zachary Avery interviewed the team behind indie publishing label Finji (as well as several developers that have published under Finji) and wrote an in-depth profile, while Marcus Stewart spoke with the developers behind the hit Poker-inspired roguelite Balatro about its runaway success. Finally, I traveled to Los Angeles, California, to catch up with the director and producer of Street Fighter 6 and attend Capcom Cup X to see the first-ever $1 million grand prize get handed out.

That's on top of our standard preview suite. In this issue, you'll read previews for Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree, Dune: Awakening, Kingmakers, MechWarrior 5: Clans, TopSpin 2K25, and more!

Here's a closer look at the cover:

Not a print subscriber yet but want this issue? Well, you're in luck! Subscribing today – or within the next few days – will net you a print copy of this issue! You can join the ranks of the Game Informer print subscribers through our new standalone print subscription! Just head here to sign up for either one or two years at a fraction of the cost of buying the issues individually! You can even gift a print subscription to your favorite gamer!

Subscribe to the print magazine now

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, BlueSky, and Threads accounts and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Individual print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

Star Wars Outlaws

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 30, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

