
  Dead Island 2 Might Not Be Dead After Job Listing Surfaces






            The oft-delayed, always-mysterious Dead Island 2 might still be coming if a new job listing at developer Dambuster Studios is any indication. The position is for an art director to work on a recreation of Los Angeles and, "create the sun soaked backdrop to a full scale zombie apocalypse set across the iconic Californian city for the next installment in the world renowned Dead Island franchise." The listing also references creating a title for, "current and future platforms," potentially hinting at a cross-gen release for the game.

It's been a long and bumpy road for Dead Island 2, the follow up to Techland's co-op zombie-killing titles. After developing 2011's Dead Island and its 2013 follow up, Dead Island: Riptide, the Polish studio moved on from the franchise to start a new post-apocalyptic zombie series, Dying Light. During Dead Island 2's reveal at E3 2014, it was announced that Spec Ops: The Line developer Yager Development was put in charge of the numbered sequel. However, Deep Silver and Yager had a falling out, and Deep Silver transitioned development to Team Sonic Racing and Crackdown 3 studio Sumo Digital in 2016. Then, last year, it was announced that Dambuster Studios, which took over development on Homefront: The Revolution when Crytek suffered financial woes and its relationship with Deep Silver went downhill, would be taking over Dead Island 2 as well; an interesting twist, seeing as how Yager and Crytek shared Deep Silver's E3 2014 meeting area to show off Dead Island 2 and Homefront: The Revolution respectively. Now, Dambuster Studios will have (hopefully) finished both of those titles.

Things have been quiet for Dead Island 2 ever since Dambuster took over, but with this new job listing, it's possible the team is building toward a re-reveal sometime soon. Dead Island 2 was originally set to release in 2015, but has been continually delayed thanks to its turbulent development.

[Source: Dambuster Studios via Destructoid]

      Products In This Article

Dead Island 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

April 21, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email

