
                                          UFC 3
                  				 Review


  From Contender To Champion




Reviewed on Xbox One

Also on
PlayStation 4

Publisher
EA Sports

Developer
EA Vancouver

Release
February 2, 2018

Rating
Teen

When EA Sports signed its deal with the UFC in 2012, the
publisher had an uphill battle. The previous UFC series by Yuke's set a high
bar that EA initially struggled to meet. With UFC 3, EA Sports refines and
sharpens the entire package, finally earning its place as the champ of
mixed-martial-arts video games.
No game captures the calculated-yet-violent spirit of mixed martial
arts better than UFC 3. The rush of entering the Octagon with the sole purpose
of topping your opponent is well represented through both gameplay and
presentation. The UFC brings multiple martial-arts disciplines into each fight,
and you must always be on guard against both ruthless knockouts and technical
submissions. Fights often turn into breathless affairs, keeping you on the edge
of your seat. Just because you're winning the fight doesn't mean a single
well-placed uppercut or takedown won't turn the tide in your opponent's favor.
UFC 3's striking controls are the best the series has ever
seen. From the base knowledge of each face-button corresponding to a limb to
the more advanced strikes using shoulder buttons as modifiers to your basic
attacks, the stand-up game in UFC 3 is intuitive and accessible while
maintaining depth. New vulnerability windows leave you open to damage when you
attack to make striking a more careful art. This, when combined with the finely
tuned stamina bar, successfully balances out the number of fighters who come
out swinging for the fences, as getting caught with a head kick in the middle
of throwing a haymaker puts them in a precarious situation.
Animations have been rebuilt from the ground up for UFC 3,
making for seamless transitions between moves. In addition, there are few
awkward strikes and glitches during gameplay, and fighters look and move much
more like their real-world counterparts. Each fighter's stance, pre-fight
routine, and post-fight celebration looks authentic to how they behave in
real-life.
With how great and authentic UFC 3 typically looks and feels,
I'm disappointed by how often the commentary fails to keep pace. Play-by-play analyst
Jon Anik does a great job in his debut effort, but longtime color commentator
Joe Rogan adds little in way of new voiceover, a noticeable detriment in
sequences where Anik and Rogan are going back and forth. In addition, the
commentary sometimes lacks contextual awareness, with incorrect calls or set
ups that give the wrong storyline of fights.
Sorry, this video is not available
UFC 3's overhauled career mode is a huge success. The new
GOAT Career mode peppers in multiple short-term goals to keep you engaged at
every turn. I enjoy watching my fighter climb the ranks on his way to his first
title shot, but the satisfaction of completing smaller goals every few fights
on my way to a better contract is much more exciting. I also love how each
contract gives me a new rival to trash-talk throughout my contract before
facing off against them. UFC's licensed shows help tell the story of your
fighter each step of the way, making each milestone even more satisfying.
Earning the title is still one of the ultimate goals, but to
become the greatest of all time, you need to perform well inside and outside of
the Octagon. I love the balancing act between training and promoting during the
lead up to a fight. Do you want to boost your fight's hype by talking trash to
your opponent on social media, or do you want to learn a new submission that
might come in handy during that fight? I often struggled with the answer to
that question, and because of that, I looked forward to each training camp as
much as the fights themselves.
In addition to career, players can engage in several diversions,
both returning and debut. Popular one-off exhibitions like Knockout mode return
(with Snoop Dogg delivering humorous commentary), while the new Tournaments
feature allows you to pit 8 or 16 fighters against each other in a
bracket-style tournament with custom rules. I'm glad Live Events are back, as I
enjoy following along with real-world cards and putting in my picks for who I
think will win.
Online, you can play in ranked championship in pursuit of a
belt, or unranked quick-matches, resulting in a basic-yet-enjoyable suite. Online
play is mostly smooth and absent of lag, but I'm annoyed you still can't skip
the long-winded pre-fight and mid-round presentations unless both players agree
to.
Ultimate Team also introduces many new features. As you
fight through opponents online and offline, you earn in-game currency, which
can be used to purchase packs. Each pack you open features fighters, moves, and
consumable boosters that can be applied to different slots of each fighter in
your starting lineup. Items can also boost your chemistry rating if you apply
them to the correct weight class, fighter type, and slot (for example, punches
to the arm category). With each added move and consumable boost, your fighter
becomes more competitive, which helps whether you're jumping into online
matchmaking or staying offline.
With items carrying different tiers of effectiveness, and
better packs costing more in-game currency, it opens the mode up to tempt you
with microtransactions. However, without paying any real money, I still fell into the addictive loop of earning
coins through completing in fights and opening packs to improve my fighter. Opening
a pack to reveal your favorite fighter, or the move you've been missing from one
of your starters' arsenal is a thrill. I love that the online portion of
Ultimate Team has been complemented by a fully featured offline mode for those
who don't want to throw down in the fiery gauntlet of online competition or
worry about players who have paid money to acquire the best items.

By building on its already strong foundation and
adding meaningful new gameplay and modes, UFC 3 delivers a terrific MMA
experience from top to bottom. Whether you want to play against a friend in a
single bout or develop a fighter from local favorite to greatest all time, UFC
3 allows you to live out the fantasy of stepping into the Octagon like never
before.
Note: The online portion of this game was evaluated using EA Access servers prior to official launch.

8.75

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptDeliver an improved iteration of EA Sports’ UFC franchise with a revamped career mode, Ultimate Team, and striking controls
GraphicsUFC 3 attention to detail is gorgeous, from the way fighters circle each other in the Octagon to the facial animations as an overhand right comes down on their cheek
SoundPlay-by-play man Jon Anik is great in his series debut, but color commentator Joe Rogan adds few new lines, and the occasional lack of contextual awareness can ruin immersion
PlayabilityRevamped striking makes for more intuitive controls than its predecessors, and managing your career outside of the Octagon is a thrill
EntertainmentWith an exceptional career mode and improved gameplay on top of its predecessor’s already-strong offerings, UFC 3 is the best MMA game ever released
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

UFC 3

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One

Release Date:

February 2, 2018

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

