
  EA Sports FC 24 Revealed With September Release Date






            During today's official reveal livestream, EA Sports revealed EA Sports FC 24, the replacement for its overwhelmingly popular FIFA franchise. The move away from the FIFA license was announced last year, and today, we got our first look at this year's EA Sports soccer title.

The big pitch this year from EA Sports is around its advanced technology. EA's proprietary Frostbite engine returns, but with enhancements, including the new Sapien character model skeletons first introduced through our Madden NFL 24 coverage last month. The skeleton ensures that players look more true to life when standing still but also in motion, making for more realistic movement that affects both the game's visuals and gameplay. This year's implementation of Frostbite also includes new GPU cloth technology, which is meant to ensure that players' kits move like real-world materials in reaction to player movement. You can also expect a better matchday experience, with new animations and scenes featuring the action happening around the pitch, not just on it.

The big new technology with this entry is HyperMotionV. This tech purports to translate the rhythm and fluidity of real-world soccer into EA Sports FC 24. Using this technology, a real-world player can pull off a new move that isn't in the game, then, within days, HyperMotionV can leverage volumetric capture to build precise animations around that new move and have it in the game faster than ever. It sounds impressive, so it makes sense when EA Sports says the HyperMotionV technology is only present in the PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC versions of EA Sports FC 24.

Finally, a new system known as PlayStyles is included in this year's game. Using Opta optimization, PlayStyles goes beyond the series' in-game ratings to bring athletes to life in new ways. Each PlayStyle gives stars and other players unique abilities in service of creating a more authentic experience on the pitch.

EA Sports also announced new leagues coming to the game, including Liga F and Frauen-Bundesliga, which will join existing leagues like Laliga, Bundesliga, Serie A, and Conmebol Libertadores. The company also announced an exclusive renewal with UEFA, making EA Sports FC 24 the only place you can play UEFA Champions League, UEFA Women's Champions League, UEFA Europea League, UEFA Europa Conference League, and UEFA Super Cup. Finally, we learned that the FC series secured a long-term renewal with the Premier League.

EA Sports also revealed Manchester City star Erling Haaland as its cover star for this year's entry. EA Sports FC 24 launches on September 29 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC. Those who buy the Ultimate Edition will receive early access starting on September 22.

      Products In This Article

EA Sports FC 24

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 29, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

