
  Evil Genius 2 Aims Its Doomsday Device At March Release Date






            If you've been desperate to take over the world on your own terms, Rebellion Games has you covered. In fact, World Domination just so happens to be the name of the game ... literally. Evil Genius 2: World Domination puts you in the shoes of one of four maniacal masterminds as you build up your evil lair, train your minions, stop unwanted intruders, and, eventually, take over the world with the help of your Doomsday Device. Today, Rebellion Games let us know that March 30 is when we'll be able to chart our path to snatching control of the Earth away from the powers that be.

Evil Genius 2: World Domination lets you select from four different playable characters: Max, a narcissist with a well-rounded playstyle; Ivan, a muscle-bound madman; Emma, a master manipulator and former spy; or Zalika, a science-heavy zealot. Based on the character you choose, your options, playstyle, and even story change. If that's not enough customization, you can also choose from three island locations on which to build your supervillain headquarters. Each island features its own gameplay challenges.

Once you get down to brass tacks and start building your lair, vastly updated controls allow you to build multi-floor lairs with ease. If you're worried about do-gooder spies from the Forces of Justice infiltrating your lair (and you should be worried!), new rooms, henchmen, traps, and more can be placed however you see fit to try and catch those who would dare attempt to thwart you. 

Of course, you can't dominate the world if your entire operation is contained to one little island. You can send henchmen and minions on missions across the globe to gain influence and control over different regions. By completing various schemes and heists, you can expand your criminal network and steal valuable loot.

Check out the new release-date announcement trailer below and get ready claim the world for your own.

Evil Genius 2: World Domination lands on PC via Steam on March 30. For more on the long-awaited sequel to the 2004 cult-classic, check out my preview from late 2020 here. To learn exactly what Evil Genius 2: World Domination is, read up on my coverage of the reveal from E3 2019.

Note: The original headline and body text stated the release date was May 30. The actual release date for Evil Genius 2: World Domination is March 30. We regret this error. The headline and body text have been changed to reflect the accurate information.

      Products In This Article

Evil Genius 2: World Domination

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

March 30, 2021 (PC), November 30, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

