
  Exclusive First Details And Screenshots Of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed






            In August 2023, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem arrived in theaters, and, much to the delight of both longtime and newer fans, it was a terrific and fun watch. Just over a month after its theatrical debut, Paramount and Nickelodeon announced that publisher Outright Games and developer A Heartful of Games would be releasing a follow-up video game set in the Mutant Mayhem universe. While it hasn't had a name to this point, Game Informer can now exclusively confirm that the title is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed.

Warning: This article contains spoilers for the 2023 film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem.

The 3D brawler/platformer picks up after the events of Mutant Mayhem; the Turtles have been accepted by society following their heroics against Superfly and his band of mutants. Unfortunately, their dream of attending high school as average, everyday students is suddenly interrupted by a new wave of mutants invading New York City. Featuring an all-original storyline, Mutants Unleashed aims to have the same brand of humor as the 2023 film.

Players take control of the four hero turtles, each with a unique playstyle, as they fight their way through the sewers and streets of New York. Outright Games touts how immersive both the world above and below ground is, as well as the cast of familiar faces for the brothers to meet and fight. As co-op is a massive piece of the history of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles video games, players can enjoy two-player local co-op in Mutants Unleashed. 

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed is set to arrive near the end of this year for PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC. For more info on the other big TMNT video game in development, The Last Ronin, head here for our exclusive interview with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles co-creator Kevin Eastman.

      Products In This Article

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

