
  Fire Emblem Engage, Sports Story | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Brian invites Wesley LeBlanc on to chat about the first major release of 2023, Fire Emblem Engage. The two break down their time spent with the final game to this point, previewing the various aspects of this highly anticipated turn-based strategy title. Then, in the second segment, Brian and Wesley chat about Sports Story, the successor to Golf Story, which surprise-launched in late December.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram: @BrianPShea. You can follow Wesley on Twitter: @LeBlancWes.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:06 – Fire Emblem Engage Preview
00:28:26 – Sports Story Impressions

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with host Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Fire Emblem Engage

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

January 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Sports Story

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

December 23, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

