
  First NBA 2K25 Details Include Cover Stars, Mode Updates, September Release Date






            2K has announced the first details for the newest edition of its annualized NBA 2K series. NBA 2K25 will feature three separate cover athletes across four distinct covers, depending on which edition you choose. In addition to revealing the cover art, 2K also provided the first screenshots and high-level details on the upgrades players can expect.

Headlining the cover star lineup is Boston Celtics forward Jayson Tatum. The 26-year-old Tatum is a five-time All-Star, a Gold Medalist at the 2020 Olympic Games, a member of the U.S. Men's National Team for the 2024 Olympic Games, and is coming off his first NBA Championship. Tatum lands on the NBA 2K25 Standard Edition.

Meanwhile, those who purchase the NBA 2K25 WNBA Edition will see Las Vegas Aces forward A'ja Wilson on their cover. Wilson is coming off back-to-back championships with the Aces. She won the Finals MVP honors for the 2023 Championship and is a two-time WNBA MVP and a six-time All-Star. Wilson also took home a Gold Medal at the 2020 Olympic Games and will again represent the United States at the 2024 Olympic Games. Together, Tatum and Wilson co-headline the NBA 2K25 All-Star Edition.

The final NBA 2K25 cover athlete is a recent Hall of Fame inductee, eight-time NBA All-Star, and the winner of the legendary 2000 NBA Dunk Contest, Vince Carter. Carter graces the cover of the NBA 2K25 Hall of Fame Edition. You can see all four covers below.

This year's entry signals the return of the MyCareer mode with fresh updates and new MyTeam modes. For the new-gen versions on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC (for those with compatible specs), players can expect an added sixth era in MyNBA, a more compact and interactive City, and the return of the women's-focused mode The W. Crossplay will also be offered on newer-gen versions.

For those debating which version to get, you can see what is included in each below. It's worth noting that that Hall of Fame Edition will only be available through September 8.

Standard Edition

$70 on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, and PC
$60 on Switch
Available Digital and Physical

Includes the base game
Features Jayson Tatum on the cover
WNBA Edition

$70 on PS5 and Xbox Series X/S
Physical Only
Exclusive to GameStop [disclosure: GameStop is Game Informer's parent company], only available in North America

Includes the base game
Features A'ja Wilson on the cover

All-Star Edition

$100 on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC

Includes the base game
Features Jayson Tatum and A'ja Wilson on the cover
100,000 VC
MyTeam Content, including 10 MyTeam Player Cards (3 guaranteed 89 OVR), 3 Diamond Shoe Cards, 3 Takeover Boosts, and 1 Amythyst Coach Card
MyCareer Content, including 150 Skill Boosts (25 games), 75 Gatorade Boosts (25 games), Jayson Tatum Cover Jersey, Jayson Tatum Electric Skateboard Skin, and a 2K25 Cover Stars Design T-Shirt
Hall of Fame Edition

$150 on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, and PC
Only on sale through September 8

Includes everything in the All-Star Edition
Features Vince Carter on the Cover
MyCareer Vince Carter Cover Jersey
Season 1 Pro Pass with 4 upfront Pro Pass rewards
12-Month NBA League Pass Subscription

NBA 2K25 arrives on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, and Switch on September 6. For what last year's entry did and didn't do well, check out our review here.

      Products In This Article

NBA 2K25

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

