
  Forza Horizon 5 Adds Iconic Cars From Back To The Future, Jurassic Park, And Knight Rider






            Developer Playground Games has announced its next wave of Forza Horizon 5 content will be focused on newer innovations in the realm of automobiles. This means that players will have the opportunity to drive around Mexico in a 2024 Ford Mustang Dark Horse, 2023 Hyundai IONIQ 5 N, 2021 Toyta GR Yaris, 2023 Porsche Taycan Cross Turismo Turbo S, and 2023 Kia EV6 GT. However, for many, those are unlikely to be the highlight of this batch of releases. Available tomorrow, Forza Horizon 5 is bringing several iconic vehicles from Universal Studios films and TV shows.

The Universal Icons Car Pack adds KITT from Knight Rider, Jurassic Park's 1992 Jeep Wrangler Sahara, and a distinct version of the Delorean Time Machine from each Back to the Future film in the trilogy. Each Time Machine features a unique look and visual effects once you hit 88 miles per hour. The Jurassic Park Wrangler features the park's logo as well as the iconic color scheme from the film. Finally, KITT includes a body kit that includes Super Pursuit Mode.

This isn't the first time Forza Horizon 5 has introduced licensed vehicles from pop-culture properties. Players can already purchase the Forza Horizon 5: Fast X Car Pack as well as the Forza Horizon 5: Hot Wheels expansion. In addition to those aforementioned vehicles, this season adds 17 EventLab props to help players build modern highways and a robot collectible out in the world.

We absolutely loved Forza Horizon 5 when it came out in 2021, awarding it a 9.5 out of 10, naming it one of the top 10 games of 2021, and awarding it both Best Microsoft Exclusive and Best Racing Game for that year. The Universal Icons Car Pack will be available tomorrow, June 18. The Mustang arrives on June 20, the IONIQ and EV6 land in-game on June 27. The Yaris comes out on July 4 and the Taycan on July 11.

      Products In This Article

Forza Horizon 5

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 9, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

