
  Hello Kitty Island Adventure Coming To Consoles And PC In 2025






            For the uninitiated, Hello Kitty Island Adventure may not sound like a game that would garner a lot of attention outside of the Sanrio fandom, but the Apple Arcade exclusive has attracted extremely positive fan reception, even taking home the Apple Arcade Game of the Year award in 2023. During today's Nintendo Direct, we learned that Sunblink is bringing the island-building experience to consoles and PC.

In Hello Kitty Island Adventure, My Melody is invited to open a gift shop at Big Adventures Park, and she invites Hello Kitty and her friends to the island. You create your own Sanrio-style character and join the getaway, but when you arrive, you learn that the park is abandoned. You must work with Hello Kitty to restore the island and theme park back to its bustling former glory. 

Sunblink claims to provide more than 100 hours of gameplay spread across several different biomes and gameplay conventions. You can also decorate your spaces and even allow friends to visit your island and decorate their Friendship Cabins. On top of that, you can collect critters, go fishing, and give gifts to island dwellers. Multiplayer allows you to solve puzzles and build homes together. 

Sunblink promises new characters, areas, clothing, items, visitors, minigames, and more will join the game post-launch, and it will all be free. Like its Apple Arcade release, there is no premium currency to earn or purchase, and you unlock everything by playing the game. Hello Kitty Island Adventure arrives on Switch in 2025, followed by releases on PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, and PC in the same calendar year. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

      Products In This Article

Hello Kitty Island Adventure

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

July 26, 2023 (Mac, iOS), 2025 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

