
  How Nintendo Switch Online Stacks Up | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Brian is joined by fellow Game Informer editor John Carson to dig deep on the Nintendo Switch Online subscription service. The two start the conversation by comparing the three platform holders' various subscription services before chatting about what Nintendo Switch Online could do to become a better overall service for players.

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), John Carson (@John_Carson)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:42 – New Pokémon Animated Web Series
00:04:43 – Marvel's Midnight Suns Release Date Coming Soon?
00:08:30 – Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl DLC Announced
00:12:06 – Alan Wake Remastered Coming to Switch
00:19:00 – Fall Guys Coming to Switch
00:22:46 – Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards Comes to Switch Online
00:23:47 – Everybody Votes: What Do You Want on Nintendo Switch Online?
00:29:02 – How Does Switch Online Compare to PS Plus and Game Pass?
01:03:17 – Definitive Ranking: Classic Games on Nintendo Switch Online
01:10:55 – eShop Gem of the Week: Arcade Archives Mario Bros.
01:13:20 – eShop Gem of the Week BONUS: Mini Motorways

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with hosts Marcus Stewart and John Carson, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time! We also have From Panel to Podcast from host Andrew Reiner, covering everything from the world of comic books, including the shows, movies, and games that spawn from them!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Midnight Suns

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), May 11, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 5, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Mini Motorways

Platform:

Switch, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

September 19, 2019 (iOS), July 20, 2021 (PC, Mac), May 11, 2022 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

John Carson
contributed to this article.

