
  Inbox Q&A, Super Mega Baseball 4 Impressions | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Brian invites Game Informer editor-in-chief Matt Miller on the show for the first time. After talking about Matt's favorite Nintendo experiences, the two chat briefly about Super Mega Baseball 4, which is out today, then transition to answer questions from the All Things Nintendo and Game Informer community.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram @BrianPShea. You can follow Matt on Twitter: @MatthewRMiller.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:02:05 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:11:37 – Super Mega Baseball 4 Impressions
00:22:43 – Nintendo Comfort Games?
00:30:26 – Will Tears of the Kingdom Get DLC?
00:36:33 – Nintendo's Shutting Down eShop, Emulators, and Hacks
00:45:05 – Where is Metroid Prime 4?
00:50:17 – Why Doesn't Nintendo Do More Remakes?
00:57:33 – Remaster Requests for Nintendo
01:05:51 – Top 3 Game Boy Advance Games
01:12:58 – Putting Classic Zelda Elements in New Zelda Games
01:24:59 – Programming Note for Next Week

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with host Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Super Mega Baseball 4

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Metroid Prime 4

Platform:

Switch

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Matt Miller
contributed to this article.

