
  Inbox Q&A With Brittney Brombacher | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, we close out 2023 with a special Inbox Q&A episode featuring Brittney Brombacher from What's Good Games. Brian and Brittney cover everything from the Zelda movie to looking back on Super Mario Bros. Wonder more than two months later. Of course, before we get to that, Brian learns Brittney's history with Nintendo.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram/Threads @BrianPShea or Twitter @BrianPShea. You can follow Brittney on Twitter: @BlondeNerd. You can also find What's Good Games on YouTube.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:24 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:07:07 – What's Good Games/Being a Fan in the Industry
00:15:01 – Inbox Q&A

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Van Aken, Marcus Stewart, and Kyle Hilliard, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

