
  Xbox Unveils Updated Lineup Of Series X/S Accessories






            With the next generation of consoles right around the corner, Xbox has announced its lineup of Xbox Series X/S accessories. While Xbox has touted far-reaching compatibility with both your existing games and accessories, the company is hopeful it is giving players reason to upgrade as the next-gen hardware nears.

It all starts with new controllers. The new Xbox Wireless Controller might look similar to the one you've been using with your Xbox One or PC for years now, but with a new hybrid d-pad and textured grips, as well as a button that allows you to capture screenshots and video clips with a quick press (or hold), it's not completely identical. The controller was previously revealed in black alongside the Series X, and white alongside the Series S, but Xbox today revealed a striking new Shock Blue color. 

If you're hoping to use the new Xbox Wireless Controller with your PC, Xbox also announced bundles to help you get going at your desk. You can choose between a bundle featuring the new controller and a Windows 10 wireless adapter or a bundle with the new controller and a USB-C cable. 

For those who are sick of swapping out batteries, Xbox has announced a new Xbox Rechargeable Battery + USB-C Cable bundle. The rechargeable battery gives you a full charge in four hours, or lets you charge while plugged in. The Xbox Wireless Controllers cost $60, while the Xbox Rechargeable Battery + USB-C Cable is priced at $25. 

All of these accessories are available on November 10, alongside the new consoles themselves.

[Source: Xbox Wire]

            .

Brian Shea
Digital Editor
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Xbox Series X

Release Date:

November 10, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Xbox Series S

Release Date:

November 10, 2020

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

