
  Kit Ellis And Krysta Yang Talk Nintendo Minute And Working At Nintendo | All Things Nintendo






            The Nintendo Minute was never a minute, and neither is this week's episode of All Things Nintendo! This week, Brian is joined by Kit Ellis and Krysta Yang, the two former hosts of Nintendo Minute, Nintendo's in-house YouTube show. However, their time at Nintendo extends far beyond simply hosting that show. In fact, when you combine how long Kit and Krysta worked at Nintendo, it's almost three decades of experience. On this special episode of All Things Nintendo, Brian chats with the two former Nintendo employees about their long-running show, what it's like working at the company, and hints of what could be next for them.

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Kit Ellis (@kitosan), Krysta Yang (@breath0air)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:03:07 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:11:32 – Pokémon Legends: Arceus Thoughts
00:16:53 – Switch is Nintendo's Best-Selling Console Ever
00:23:29 – Nintendo Not Interested in Studio Acquisitions
00:29:03 – Yacht Club Games' New Project: Mina the Hollower
00:32:37 – Fire Emblem Heroes Five-Year Anniversary
00:34:02 – What is Your Favorite Nintendo Mobile Game?
00:37:19 – What it's Like Working at Nintendo
00:49:45 – The Early Days of Nintendo Direct
00:55:44 – Looking Back at Nintendo Minute
01:17:53 – Hints of What's Next for Kit and Krysta
01:24:18 – Definitive Ranking: Games Kit and Krysta Worked on at Nintendo
01:31:50 – eShop Gem of the Week: Art of Balance
01:33:23 – eShop Gem of the Week: Wytchwood

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with host Ben Reeves, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time! We also have From Panel to Podcast from host Andrew Reiner, covering everything from the world of comic books, including the shows, movies, and games that spawn from them! 

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Mina the Hollower

Platform:

PC, Mac, Linux

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Fire Emblem Heroes

Platform:

iOS

Release Date:

February 2, 2017

Purchase
More Info

Art of Balance

Platform:

Wii U

Purchase
More Info

Wytchwood

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

December 9, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), February 8, 2024 (iOS, Android)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

