
  Mario Strikers: Battle League Preview | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Brian is joined by Game Informer Show host Alex Van Aken to talk about the upcoming Mario Strikers: Battle League. Brian has seen the game in action and is ready to tell longtime series fan, Alex, all about the live gameplay he witnessed. 

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:02:33 – Temtem Gets 1.0 Release Date
00:09:37 – 3DS and Wii U eShop's Remove Payment Options
00:11:44 – Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Movie Hits Paramount Plus
00:13:53 – Mario Strikers: Battle League Post-Launch Content Confirmed
00:20:24 – Mario Strikers: Battle League Impressions
00:43:24 – Definitive Ranking: Mario Sports Games
00:51:19 – eShop Gem of the Week: Lofi Ping Pong

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with hosts Marcus Stewart and John Carson, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time! We also have From Panel to Podcast from host Andrew Reiner, covering everything from the world of comic books, including the shows, movies, and games that spawn from them!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Mario Strikers: Battle League

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

June 10, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Temtem

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Alex Van Aken
contributed to this article.

