
  Metal: Hellsinger Devs Announce Star-Studded Gamescom Concert






            Funcom and The Outsiders have announced a metal concert happening at this year's Gamescom in Cologne, Germany to celebrate the impending release of their heavy metal rhythmic shooting game, Metal: Hellsinger. The concert, which takes place on August 25, hopes to become the largest concert ever put on at the massive annual gaming convention. 

Several of the vocalists featured in Metal: Hellsinger will be on hand to perform their songs from the soundtrack. Matt Heafy of Trivium, Alissa White-Gluz of Arch Enemy, Mikael Stanne of Dark Tranquility, Dennis Lyxzén of Refused and INVSN, and James Dorton of Black Crown Initiate are all currently scheduled to take the stage. The concert is set to kick off at 7 p.m. Central European Summer Time (1 p.m. Eastern/10 a.m. Pacific). The event is free and open to thousands of in-person attendees, with potentially millions being able to join through a livestream, which will be detailed at a later date. The first 200 people to enter the hall for the concert will receive a bag full of exclusive Metal: Hellsinger merchandise.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Metal: Hellsinger comes to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC on September 15. If you want to try the game for yourself, a demo is currently available on all three of those platforms. If you'd rather read my hands-on impressions, you can do so here.

      Products In This Article

Metal: Hellsinger

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

September 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), December 8, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

