
  Metal: Hellsinger's First DLC Arrives This Month, Adds Two New Original Songs






            Developer The Outsiders has announced the first piece of premium DLC for its critically acclaimed rhythm-based shooter, Metal: Hellsinger. The game, which challenges you to blast the demons of Hell to the beat of an original soundtrack featuring some of the biggest names in metal, is adding two new original songs to the soundtrack through the first piece of downloadable content.

The DLC, Dream of the Beast, adds original songs from two singers who didn't appear on the main game's soundtrack. Cristina Scabbia from Lacuna Coil and Will Ramos from Lorna Shore join the cast of recognizable singers to contribute to the soundtrack. Dream of the Beast also adds The Red Right Hand, a new machine gun, and three new outfits, each of which provide unique gameplay modifiers.

These updates join the game as part of the Dream of the Beast DLC, but players who don't purchase the premium content also have something to be excited for. The same day the DLC arrives, players can expect a free title update for Metal Hellsinger. This free update adds a new song selection feature.

Both of these updates arrive on March 29 on all platforms. The game, which took home Game Informer's "Best Shooter" award for 2022, is available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. For more on Metal: Hellsinger, check out our review here. You can also read our interview with System of a Down singer Serj Tankian, who contributed to the base game's soundtrack, right here.

      Products In This Article

Metal: Hellsinger

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, Quest 3, Quest 2, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

September 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), December 8, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), 2024 (PlayStation VR2, Quest 3, Quest 2)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

