
  Motive Studio Announces Single-Player Iron Man Game As First Part Of New EA/Marvel Collaboration






            Electronic Arts' Motive Studio today announced it is currently developing an Iron Man game in collaboration with Marvel Games. The as-of-yet untitled game is a single-player, third-person, action title starring everyone's favorite genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist: Tony Stark. Electronic Arts heralds this game as the first of several new games developed in a new collaboration with Marvel.

According to the announcement, Motive Studio hopes to tap into the rich history of Iron Man and Tony Stark. The studio hopes to channel "the complexity, charisma, and creative genius of Tony Stark, enabling players to feel what it's like to truly play as Iron Man." 

"We are thrilled to collaborate with the talented team at Motive Studio to bring their original vision of one of Marvel's most important, powerful, and beloved characters," vice president and creative director at Marvel Games Bill Rosemann said in the announcement. "Their experience delivering both established entertainment worlds and thrilling gameplay – combined with their authentic passion for the armored icon – will fuel our quest to deliver a love letter to a legendary hero in the form of the ultimate Iron Man video game."

The Iron Man team at Motive Studio is led by executive producer Olivier Proulx, who recently produced Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy for Square Enix and Eidos-Montréal. Proulx also worked in production leadership for Marvel's Avengers. He's joined by Ian Frazier (Star Wars: Squadrons, Mass Effect Andromeda), Maëlenn Lumineau (Immortals Fenyx Rising, Assassin's Creed: Odyssey), and JF Poirier (Star Wars: Squadrons, Star Wars: Battlefront II). 

"It's an honor and privilege to have the opportunity to make a video game based on one of the most iconic superheroes in entertainment today," Proulx said in the announcement. "We have a great opportunity to create a new and unique story that we can call our own. Marvel is encouraging us to create something fresh. We have a lot of freedom, which is so engaging for the team."

Motive Studio's Iron Man project is currently in pre-production, meaning it is unlikely we will see the game for quite some time. Motive Studio is currently working on the upcoming Dead Space remake, which is scheduled to launch on January 27. Previously, Iron Man appeared in Iron Man VR, a 2020 PlayStation VR-exclusive title, and Marvel's Avengers, a 2020 live-service ensemble title. Before that, Iron Man starred in two Sega-developed console games based as the first two Iron Man Marvel Cinematic Universe films. The character has also appeared in multiple games like the Marvel vs. Capcom series and the upcoming Marvel's Midnight Suns.

Oddly enough, this announcement narrowly missed the Disney and Marvel Games Showcase stream at D23, which announced another triple-A Marvel game starring Black Panther and Captain America. That game is in development at Skydance New Media, under the leadership of industry luminary Amy Hennig. For more on that game, head here.

What do you want to see from a new Iron Man game? What can the team at Motive Studio and Marvel Games learn from previous games that featured Tony Stark? Let us know in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Motive Studio Iron Man Game

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

