
  Over-The-Top Brawler Midnight Fight Express Gets New Trailer






            Announced at Gamescom last year, Midnight Fight Express throws back to the brawlers of yesteryear while implementing several new additions to the formula. Developed by Jacob Dzwinel, a one-person development team, Midnight Fight Express features motion-captured combat, modern visuals, and different gameplay featuring multiple combat systems, accessible-but-deep combat, and gameplay on foot, in cars, on boats, and more.

Today, during Gamescom's Opening Night Live stream, we received a new trailer for the exciting isometric brawler. The fluid combat looks reminiscent of films like John Wick or Kingsman: The Secret Service. The trailer shows brawls taking place everywhere from trains and clubs to back alleys and office buildings. While all of the action is excessive (in all the right ways), we also get glimpses of what appears to be supernatural elements. The gameplay looks fun, but I'm also interested to learn more about the world in which Midnight Fight Express takes place.

You can see the full trailer for yourself below.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

The brawler genre has been receiving a little bit of a shot in the arm as of late, with the likes of Streets of Rage 4 and garnering critical acclaim and titles like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge on the horizon. Hopefully, Midnight Fight Express adds to that when it releases.

Midnight Fight Express launches on PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC in summer 2022.

If comments are still showing as disabled, a site update is happening on our side that has caused a temporary takedown. We hope to have them back up and running soon so our community can go back to sharing their thoughts with us about everything gaming-related! 

      Products In This Article

Midnight Fight Express

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 23, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), September 20, 2022 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

