
  Pentiment Arrives On Switch Tomorrow






            During today's Nintendo Direct: Partner Showcase, we learned Grounded is coming to Switch this April, but that's not the only Obsidian-developed title fans can expect. Blending the adventure genre with a gorgeous storybook aesthetic, Pentiment was a critical darling when it launched on Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, and PC in 2022. Now, a new stable of players will have the chance to experience the title, as it is coming to Switch tomorrow.

Pentiment puts you in control of Andreas Maler, a 16th-century artist from Nuremberg who finds himself in the middle of several murder mysteries. Taking place over the course of 25 years, you must investigate the murders, collect physical proof, interview townsfolk, and accuse who you think committed the crime based on the evidence you gather. 

When it launched on Xbox in PC, Pentiment earned an 86 on reviews aggregate sites Metacritic and OpenCritic. Game Informer's Charles Harte felt similarly, awarding it an 8.5 out of 10, saying Pentiment is "a perfect example of this, telling a deep, complex story about religion, truth, and history in the form of a book, which the player experiences as it’s being written. Despite a few sections with inconsistent pacing, it’s a must-play for fans of adventure games."

Pentiment arrives on Nintendo Switch tomorrow, February 22. For more on the title, be sure to check out our review here. Pentiment joins Grounded as previous Xbox exclusives to come to Switch. According to Xbox's Phil Spencer, there are four games in total that will arrive on additional platforms in the near future. The other two are reportedly Sea of Thieves and Hi-Fi Rush, but neither was featured on today's Nintendo Direct: Partner Showcase.

      Products In This Article

Pentiment

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 15, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC), February 22, 2024 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

