
  Pikmin 4 Review | All Things Nintendo






            On this episode of All Things Nintendo, Brian invites Kyle on to render his final verdict on Pikmin 4. The franchise has long remained a favorite of Shigeru Miyamoto's, so does this entry live up to the hype of the legendary creator? Before that, Brian and Marcus talk some Pokémon, some Sonic, and some TMNT.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram/Threads @BrianPShea or Bluesky @brianpshea.bsky.social. You can follow Marcus on Twitter: @MarcusStewart7 or Bluesky @marcusstewart7.bsky.social. You can follow Kyle on Twitter: @KyleMHilliard.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

00:00:32 – Introduction
00:01:42 – Pokémon Sleep Out Now
00:04:03 – New Pokémon Anime Trailers
00:10:26 – Sega of America Unionizes/Sonic SatAM Discussion
00:13:05 – TMNT: Shredder's Revenge DLC/Movie Discussion
00:26:02 – Pikmin 4 Review
00:47:20 – Definitive Ranking: Little Guys
00:57:20 – eShop Gem of the Week: Streets of Rogue

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Van Aken, Marcus Stewart, and Kyle Hilliard, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

#StopSpeeding - This message is paid for by NHTSA, the sponsor of this week's podcast episode.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Pikmin 4

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

July 21, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 16, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), November 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Streets of Rogue

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 12, 2019

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Marcus Stewart
 & Kyle Hilliard
contributed to this article.

