
  Playing Zelda: Majora's Mask In 2023 | All Things Nintendo






            When The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time arrived on Nintendo 64, it quickly became Brian's favorite video game he ever played. However, due to a series of circumstances and several failed attempts, he never played the direct sequel, Majora's Mask. Now, in preparation for the sequel to his current favorite game of all time, Breath of the Wild, Brian is going back and playing the sequels he missed to his favorite games of all time. The first game on that list? The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask. On this episode, Brian and Kyle chat all about playing this N64 classic in 2023.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram @BrianPShea. You can follow Kyle on Twitter: @KyleMHilliard.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:30 – Brian Finally Played Majora's Mask
00:44:05 – Definitive Ranking: Time Loop Games
00:54:15 – eShop Gem of the Week: Yooka-Laylee and the Impossible Lair

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with host Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask

Platform:

N64

Release Date:

October 26, 2000

Purchase
More Info

The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D

Platform:

3DS

Release Date:

February 13, 2015

Purchase
More Info

Yooka-Laylee and the Impossible Lair

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 8, 2019

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Kyle Hilliard
contributed to this article.

