
  Pokémon TCG: Scarlet & Violet – Paldean Fates | The Coolest Cards We Pulled






            The latest Pokémon Trading Card Game expansion in the Scarlet & Violet series is Paldean Fates, which brings new Shinies into the mix, plus various type-shifted Tera Pokémon and new special-illustration cards. Unfortunately, you can't buy these booster packs individually; instead, you must purchase special collections like the Elite Trainer Box or the Tech Sticker Collection. 

Despite this unconventional release method, Paldean Fates adds an absolutely massive number of cards to the Pokémon Trading Card Game. Those trying to collect them all have more than 240 cards to look for, including more than 135 etched-foil cards and several Trainer cards.

The Pokémon Company sent along a few of the collections and products that contain Paldean Fates booster packs so we could crack them open to see what we could pull. While I'm usually most excited about the Pokémon themselves, one of my favorite pulls this time was a Trainer card: the Nemona full-art Ultra Rare. But that's not to say I didn't pull my fair share of great cards starring some of my favorite Pokémon. I'm always a sucker for a cool Charizard card, and I love the Shiny Toedscruel ex that I found in one of the packs.

Check out my favorite pulls from Paldean Fates in the gallery below:

Pokémon Trading Card Game: Scarlet & Violet – Paldean Fates is available now. For more Pokémon TCG content, including galleries of past expansions, interviews, and the latest news, head to our hub by clicking the banner below.

      Products In This Article

Pokémon Scarlet And Violet: The Hidden Treasure Of Area Zero – The Indigo Disk

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

December 14, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

