
  Pokémon TCG: Scarlet & Violet – Paradox Rift | The Coolest Cards We Pulled






            The latest Pokémon Trading Card Game expansion in the Scarlet & Violet series is nearly here, bringing more than 180 new cards. Paradox Rift features new Ancient and Future Pokémon, playing off a story element of the Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet games, as well as type-shifted Tera Pokémon EX cards to play off one of the core mechanics of the latest-generation video games. 

Speaking of Pokémon EX cards, Paradox Rift offers more than 15 new Pokémon EX cards, but it doesn't stop there. Collectors and players alike can also expect more than 20 new Trainer cards, as well as 15 special illustration rare Pokémon and Supporter cards and 28 ultra rare full-art etched Pokémon EX and Supporter cards. There are even seven hyper-rare gold-etched cards to cross your fingers for.

The Pokémon Company sent along a bunch of booster packs from the Paradox Rift expansion for us to open in order to see what we could pull. After the last expansion focused squarely on the original 151 Pokémon, Paradox Rift largely shines the spotlight elsewhere (though a few Kanto creatures still show up). I loved the Yveltal and Garchomp EX cards I pulled, but my favorite is probably the Armarouge EX. I also loved the Ancient and Future Pokémon, but I'm disappointed the ones I pulled weren't foils. However, the gold-etched Iron Valiant EX card more than made up for that.

Check out my favorite pulls in the gallery below:

Pokémon Trading Card Game: Scarlet & Violet – Paradox Rift arrives on store shelves on November 3. For more Pokémon TCG content, including galleries of past expansions, interviews, and the latest news, head to our hub by clicking the banner below.

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

