
                                          Dragon Quest III: HD-2D Remake
                  


  Returning To The Roots




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Publisher
Square Enix

Developer
Team Asano, Artdink

Release
November 14, 2024

Rating
Everyone 10+

            The long-awaited Dragon Quest III HD-2D Remake appeared during today's highly anticipated Nintendo Direct. We learned much more about the upcoming game, including its release date, which falls in November. On top of that, during Summer Game Fest 2024, we spent about 45 minutes checking out the upcoming retro remake of one of the most beloved and important Dragon Quest games of all time.

In Dragon Quest III, which takes place years prior to the first two games in the series, you step into the shoes of the only child of Ortega, a great hero who failed to defeat Baramos, an Archfiend who threatens the world's safety. On the child's 16th birthday, they're summoned by the king of Aliahan and told to take on their father's unfinished quest to defeat Baramos. The 16-year-old Hero must assemble their party, explore a massive world full of towns and dungeons, and defeat monsters in turn-based battles.

In Dragon Quest III HD-2D Remake, players enjoy the gorgeous HD-2D visuals, which take 2D sprites and add 3D graphics and elements to the mix as popularized by other Square Enix games like Octopath Traveler and Triangle Strategy. The remake also includes modernized UI and various quality-of-life improvements. Dragon Quest III HD-2D Remake is pitched as faithful to the story of the original game, but developers Team Asano and Artdink also expanded the core narrative under the supervision of series creator Yuji Horii. 

This new version still relies on the traditionally turn-based combat present in the NES original that came to the US in 1992. However, the team has also expanded on that, giving players new animations, adjustable battle speed, and even an auto-battle setting. During my hands-on time, these improvements were the most impactful. Yes, the visuals are beautiful, and the UI improvements help, but being able to speed up the traditionally slower-paced turn-based fights and even set them to auto-battle made the grind so much more enjoyable. Pushing through endless waves of Antnibblers, Stark Ravens, Slimes, and Bunicorns using these settings helped me level my characters as they explored the large overworld map. 

However, it is worth noting that this is clearly a game that was created in the late '80s. Various modernizations and updates have been made to the formula, but you might be left wanting if you're expecting something in line with modern game design and gameplay standards. However, if you're a fan of the original or are just curious about going back and experiencing this beloved classic, this seems like it could be the best way to enjoy the story of Dragon Quest III in 2024.

If this remake sounds appealing, we also received a release date during the Nintendo Direct: Dragon Quest III HD-2D Remake will be available on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, and PC on November 14.

      Products In This Article

Dragon Quest III: HD-2D Remake

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 14, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

