
  Shin Megami Tensei V's Launch-Day DLC Detailed






            The release of Shin Megami Tensei V is right around the corner, and in our latest exclusive look at the upcoming RPG from Atlus, the studio gives us a glimpse into what players can expect from the day one DLC coming to the game. In addition to various pieces of mission-driven downloadable content, players can also anticipate DLC designed to ease the acquisition of certain resources, as well as a new, easier difficulty option.

The Return of the True Demon downloadable content sees the protagonist visiting the World of Shadows. When he arrives, Sophia hands him a Menorah that she says will bring up either "strength or death." The DLC enables you to take on the strongest demons and is geared toward those looking for a challenge. If you manage to defeat the fiends, you unlock their fusions and if you can defeat the demi-fiend, you unlock the demi-fiend's essence. 

In the A Goddess in Training DLC, the protagonist is approached by the Goddess Artemis near Tokyo Tower. She's in search of a worthy training opponent. If you can successfully complete the mission, you can recruit her as an ally and unlock her fusion.

The Rage of a Queen DLC sees Cleopatra stripped from her position at the Bethel Egpyt branch. After the protagonist receives a request to check on her following her banishment, you unlock a new mission. Clearing this mission rewards you with the opportunity to recruit her as an ally and unlock her fusion.

The final significant piece of launch-day DLC, The Doctor's Last Wish has you searching for a missing Bethel researcher. After finding the scientist talking with Mephisto, the protagonist embarks on a new mission. If you fulfill certain conditions, you gain the opportunity to recruit him as an ally and unlock his fusion.

In addition to those missions, players can also pick up Mitama Dance of Wealth and Mitama Dance of EXP DLCs, which considerably increases the spawn rates of rare demons that drop expensive relics or earn you EXP, respectively. The Wealth DLC makes earning Macca much easier, while the EXP DLC makes grinding much easier. Atlus is also releasing the Mitama Dance of Miracles DLC, which increases the spawn rates of rare demons that drop items that earn you Glory in a more efficient manner.

On top of the paid DLC, a free Safety Difficulty DLC is also planned to add an easier difficulty setting for anyone who has little RPG or SMT experience, or someone who wants to play through the game with little resistance.

While much of the information provided by Atlus this month was focused on DLC, the studio also gave us a look at its second-playthrough modes. After you finish your playthrough and clear the game, you can choose from two different modes for your second time. Newborn mode transfers your Demon Compendium and enemy analysis data but does not drastically alter the difficulty. Reborn mode transfers your protagonist's level, skills, demons, Macca, and items to the new save file, giving you an easier replay experience.

Shin Megami Tensei V, as well as all of this DLC, launches on November 12 for Switch. For more on the highly anticipated role-playing game, head to the game's hub by heading here.

            .

Brian Shea
Senior Editor
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Shin Megami Tensei V

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

November 12, 2021

Purchase
More Info

