
  Sonic Superstars Release Date Set For October






            We already knew that Sonic Superstars was arriving this fall, but thanks to today's Gamescom Opening Night Live stream, we know exactly when. In a month that already features the likes of Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Marvel's Spider-Man 2, Alan Wake 2, Assassin's Creed Mirage, Forza Motorsport, and Cities: Skylines II, we have another high-profile game that will contend with our precious free time. Sonic Superstars joins the mix with a release date of October 17.

Sonic Superstars brings the Classic Sonic action into a more modernized setting with 3D visuals and myriad new powers. It's also the first Sonic game to feature true cooperative play. As our most recent cover story, we've played and talked a lot about Sonic Superstars, including an exclusive look at every Emerald Power in the game, plus a first look at several never-before-seen zones.

This announcement also brought us a look at other multiplayer modes, which you can see in the trailer below.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Sonic Superstars arrives on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on October 17. That date puts it the same week as another highly anticipated 2D game from one of gaming's most fabled and beloved franchises, as Super Mario Bros. Wonder arrives on October 20. We already knew this fall and holiday season would be fantastic for gamers, but it looks to be particularly awesome for fans of 2D platforming. For more on Sonic Superstars, be sure to hit the banner below for exclusive details surrounding the highly anticipated 2D adventure.

      Products In This Article

Sonic Superstars

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 17, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

