Final Fantasy XIV: Stormblood


  Expansion Launches In June, Adds Red Mage Class




The next chapter of the Final Fantasy XIV saga, Stormblood, was revealed in October, but today's Final Fantasy XIV Fan Festival 2016 gave fans some more details on what Stormblood is and when it will be available to players.
The biggest news is perhaps the addition of the new Red Mage class. The class is designed to deal ranged damage through magic, similar to the Black Mage, but it has a unique melee weapon that it can use in combat.

Stormblood is also set to expand players' horizons with the ability to swim and dive. You can even bring your flying mount with you. Though these submerged areas are now explorable, no battles will happen in the water. In order to unlock the ability to swim and dive, you must complete a quest at the beginning of the expansion.
In addition to these new announcements, longtime fans of Final Fantasy can look forward to some familiarty; composer Nobuo Uematsu and designer Yasumi Matsuno are returning to the franchise. Uematsu is known as the longtime composer of the series, contributing much of the iconic music in the franchise's 30-year history, while Matsuno is notable for his work on Final Fantasy Tactics and Final Fantasy XII. Uematsu is currently working on the main theme for Stormblood, while Matsuno is working on the new 24-player raid, Return to Ivalice. 

The expansion also adds a new beast tribe called The Ananta, a snakelike, mostly female tribe that is skilled with magic, as well as another new raid called The Bend of Time – Omega, which sets players on a quest for Omega Weapon.
Stormblood is set to hit on June 20. It was previously announced that this expansion marked the end of PlayStation 3 support for Final Fantasy XIV.
[Source: Final Fantasy XIV Fan Festival 2016 on YouTube, Nova Crystallis]

Brian Shea
Senior Editor
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: Stormblood

Platform:

PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 20, 2017

Purchase
More Info

