
  Street Fighter 6 Release Date Set For June






            At long last, Street Fighter 6 has a release date. Hot on the heels of a second beta test announcement (and retailer leaks earlier this morning), Capcom announced that the next entry arrives on June 2. On top of that, we received a new trailer and details on the Deluxe Edition.

When Street Fighter 6 launches, it will deliver new innovations like real-time commentary, multiple control schemes, and World Tour mode. The base game includes 18 characters ranging from iconic names like Ryu, Ken, Chun-Li, and Blanka to new faces like Luke, Jamie, and Kimberly. For the full list of characters coming to the base game, head here.

The new trailer showed off the World Tour mode, which lets you customize your avatar and travel the world to locations like the US, France, and more. We also got a new look at several previously announced but not-yet-revealed characters, including Dee Jay, Manon, Marisa, and JP.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

An earlier leak on Amazon also revealed Street Fighter 6's Deluxe Edition, which includes the base game, the Year 1 Character Pass featuring four characters, colors 3 through 10 of each Year 1 character, and a bonus 4,200 Drive Tickets for in-game purchases.

We recently flew to Osaka, Japan for our most recent cover story and came away impressed with the studio's vision and our extended hands-on time with the game. For more on our trip to Capcom's headquarters, including a fun Rapid-Fire interview and deep dives into the character designs, visit the cover hub by clicking on the banner below. Street Fighter 6 arrives on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, and PC on June 2, 2023.

      Products In This Article

Street Fighter 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

