
  Super Mario Bros. Wonder Review | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, Wesley LeBlanc joins the show as Brian delivers his review of Super Mario Bros. Wonder after achieving 100 percent completion. Before that, the two chat about the implications of the Activision Blizzard acquisition by Microsoft and the Analogue 3D. The show ends with a short discussion about whether or not Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island is a mainline Mario game or not. 

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram/Threads @BrianPShea or Twitter @BrianPShea. You can follow Wesley on Twitter: @LeBlancWes.

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:13 – Xbox Acquisition of Activision Finalized
00:14:01 – Analogue Announces 4K N64 Console
00:24:01 – Mortal Kombat 1 Patch/DLC News
00:28:42 – Super Mario Bros. Wonder Review
01:13:42 – Everybody Votes! Is Yoshi's Island a Mario Game?

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Van Aken, Marcus Stewart, and Kyle Hilliard, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Wesley LeBlanc
contributed to this article.

