
  Ted Lasso And AFC Richmond Coming To FIFA 23






            The Apple TV show Ted Lasso has proven to be one of the most popular and well-liked series of the last few years, introducing viewers to a lovable cast of characters whose lives and storylines largely revolve around the fictional English Premier League football club, AFC Richmond. Through its first two seasons, the series has taken home numerous awards, including the Primetime Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2021 and 2022, with several of its actors – including Jason Sudeikis, Brett Goldstein, and Hannah Waddingham – taking home awards for original performances. Now, Ted Lasso reaches into a new realm: video games. 

EA Sports today announced that Ted Lasso and AFC Richmond are joining the FIFA 23 roster of teams. Lasso is joined on the sidelines by Coach Beard, with the pitch being populated by some of the team's biggest stars like Jamie Tartt, Roy Kent, Dani Rojas, Sam Obisanya, and Isaac McAdoo. While the actors' likenesses are included in the product, EA Sports hasn't indicated if we'll be hearing Jamie Tartt and Roy Kent's signature crowd chants (though it seems doubtful, seeing as how Roy Kent's chant would probably bump the ESRB rating up to M for Mature).

Regardless of that fact, you can play matches at AFC Richmond's home ground, Nelson Road, and even take control of Coach Lasso or AFC Richmond through Career Mode. AFC Richmond is also playable in Kick-Off, Online Friendlies, and Online Seasons. FIFA 23 Ultimate Team is also adding several AFC Richmond customization items, including kits, TIFOs, and the option to select Ted Lasso or Coach Beard as your FUT club's manager. All the AFC Richmond content in FUT will be obtainable through objectives and challenges.

You can see Ted Lasso and the AFC Richmond squad in action through the trailer below.

FIFA 23 arrives on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4. Xbox One, PC, and Stadia on September 30.

      Products In This Article

FIFA 23

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

September 30, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

