
  The Holiday 2021 Nintendo Gift Guide | All Things Nintendo






            With the U.S. celebrating Thanksgiving this week, today marks the official start of holiday shopping season. This week, host Brian Shea is joined by Game Informer editor-in-chief Andrew Reiner to offer up several great options for the Nintendo fan in your life.

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Andrew Reiner (@Andrew_Reiner)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:56 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:14:30 – Pokémon Go Ed Sheeran Concert
00:16:46 – Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy – Definitive Edition Problems
00:19:18 – Analogue Pocket Release Update
00:26:12 – Gift Guide: Which Switch Console is Right for You?
00:30:11 – Gift Guide: Family-Friendly Games
00:44:37 – Gift Guide: More Serious/Long-Term Games
00:56:06 – Gift Guide: Nintendo Merchandise and Peripherals
01:12:53 – Definitive Ranking: Gaming Gifts We've Received
01:21:21 – eShop Gems of the Week: Golf Story & Goblin Sword

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with host Ben Reeves, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Pokémon Go

Platform:

iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 6, 2016

Purchase
More Info

Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

November 11, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), TBA (iOS, Android)

Purchase
More Info

Golf Story

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

September 28, 2017

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Andrew Reiner
contributed to this article.

