
  The Coolest Pokémon Sword & Shield – Vivid Voltage Cards We Pulled From Booster Packs






            The Pokémon Trading Card game continues to roll on with its latest expansion, Vivid Voltage. This most recent update adds more than 185 new cards to the already massive collection that has been growing since the first edition was published in 1996. While this continues to focus on Pokémon found in the Galar region, including Galarian forms of pre-existing Pokémon, you can also expect plenty of familiar faces from past gens to make an appearance.

I was fairly lucky in my pulls in the booster packs I was sent, snagging a few awesome V cards. My particular favorite was the Pikachu V, which has 190 HP and can deal 200 damage with Thunderbolt. Not only is it capable in dealing a ton of damage, but I love the art. I'm also always a fan of the Eeveelutions, so it was nice to see Vaporeon and Jolteon emerge from the packs, though I'm bummed I didn't pull Flareon as well. I do, however, love the Zacian and Zamazenta cards I was lucky enough to get.

Check out my favorite pulls from the Pokémon Trading Card Game Sword & Shield – Vivid Voltage below.

The Pokémon Trading Card Game Sword & Shield – Vivid Voltage expansion is available now. For more on the Pokémon Trading Card Game, check out our big galleries for many of the most recent expansions.

Sword & Shield – Champion's Path
Sword & Shield – Darkness Ablaze
Sword & Shield – Rebel Clash
Sword & Shield
Sword & Shield Galar Collection Boxes
Sun and Moon – Hidden Fates and Unified Minds
Sun and Moon – Unbroken Bonds
Sun and Moon – Team Up
Sun and Moon – Lost Thunder
Sun and Moon – Celestial Storm
Sun and Moon – Forbidden Light
Sun and Moon – Ultra Prism
Sun and Moon – Shining Legends
Sun and Moon – Burning Shadows
Sun and Moon – Guardians Rising
Sun and Moon
XY Generations/XY Evolutions
Premium Trainer's XY Collection 

For our review of Pokémon Sword & Shield, head here. To read our full cover story of Pokémon Sword & Shield, which chronicles the making of the game, head here.

            .

Brian Shea
Digital Editor
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

