
  The Holiday 2022 Nintendo Gift Guide | All Things Nintendo






            This week's episode of All Things Nintendo is all about getting into the giving mood. That's right: With this episode of the show landing on Black Friday, Brian invites Game Informer production director Margaret Andrews to give a ton of ideas for crossing off the Nintendo fan on your holiday shopping list.

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Margaret Andrews (@sopheava) 

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:33 – Buying a Nintendo Switch
00:04:52 – Switch Games
00:36:49 – Nintendo Merchandise
00:55:07 – Non-Nintendo Recommendations

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweet to Brian (@BrianPShea), or join the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with host Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Margaret Andrews
contributed to this article.

