
  TMNT: Shredder's Revenge Preview | All Things Nintendo






            On this week's episode, Brian invites Game Informer's Marcus Stewart so they can discuss their hands-on impressions of the upcoming retro brawler, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge. Before that, the duo quickly runs down the news from the week, tries out a new segment, and does the First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game.

If you'd like to follow the people from this episode on Twitter, hit the following links: Brian Shea (@brianpshea), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7)

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:01:18 – First Nintendo Game/Favorite Nintendo Game
00:09:36 – Pokémon Merchandise: Build-a-Bear and Converse
00:15:45 – Nintendo Earning Call News
00:22:12 – Nintendo Indie World Rundown
00:30:22 – Everybody Votes: Mario Kart's Banana Peel
00:34:41 – Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge Preview
01:09:26 – Definitive Ranking: TMNT Games
01:12:58 – eShop Gem of the Week: Tangle Tower

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can do so by emailing AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, tweeting to Brian (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry, and Video Gameography with hosts Marcus Stewart and John Carson, which explores the history of video games – one series at a time! We also have From Panel to Podcast from host Andrew Reiner, covering everything from the world of comic books, including the shows, movies, and games that spawn from them!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 16, 2022 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), November 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 30, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Marcus Stewart
contributed to this article.

