
  TMNT: Mutants Unleashed Collector's Edition Announced






            Earlier this year, Game Informer revealed the exclusive first details and screenshots of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed, the video game set after the events of 2023 film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem. Following that March reveal, developer A Heartful of Games and publisher Outright Games has largely gone quiet. Today, the publisher revealed what players can expect from the Deluxe and Collector's Editions of Mutants Unleashed if they want to splurge on the game when it arrives later this year.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed allows you to take control of the four turtles in a 3D brawler/platformer for up to two players. The premium editions of the game will provide additional physical goodies for fans of the franchise. The Deluxe Edition includes the game, an exclusive steelbook, four pin badges, four keychains, and an artbook. Meanwhile, the Collector's Edition includes the game, Season Pass, pizza van statue, LED sign, five pin badges, four patches, a mouse mat, notebook, pen, artbook, poster, stickers, and a collector's box. The Deluxe Edition retails for $60, while the Collector's Edition will set you back $200.

Oddly enough, both the Deluxe and Collector's Editions are exclusive to the PlayStation 5 and Switch versions of the game. If you're not planning to experience this title on those systems, but still want to at least play through the game, you're in luck, as Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleahsed arrives on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC later this year.

For more on Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in video games, be sure to read our in-depth feature on the history of the video game franchise here, and if you want something else to look forward to, read a comment from TMNT co-creator Kevin Eastman on the upcoming video game based on The Last Ronin here.

      Products In This Article

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants Unleashed

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

