
  Until Dawn Arrives On PS5 And PC This Fall






            Until Dawn, the 2015 horror adventure game from Supermassive Games, is coming to PlayStation 5 and PC in remake form this fall. We received a new trailer for the beloved game alongside the announcement during today's State of Play presentation. 

Until Dawn puts you in control of eight teenagers/young adults who venture up a mountain for a fun night in a secluded cabin. In typical slasher-movie fashion, there is much more than meets the eye regarding this cabin and its surrounding area. Relying heavily on player choice, Until Dawn's narrative uses a system called the Butterfly Effect, where pivotal choices you make have consequences that go far beyond that which you can immediately recognize. The game stars actors like Rami Malek, Hayden Panettiere, Meaghan Martin, and more.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Originally announced as a full remake of the game, the trailer footage does not appear to be a significant step up in terms of visuals, appearing to be more in line with the industry's definition of a remaster. PlayStation's official description says it's been "rebuilt and enhanced for PS5 consoles and PC." Developed by Ballistic Moon, this improved version also boasts new environments, collectibles, and re-cut narrative sequences. 

We loved Until Dawn when it arrived on PlayStation 4 in 2015, awarding it a score of 9 out of 10. In the time since Until Dawn's original release, Supermassive has released other games in the genre, including The Dark Pictures Anthology and The Quarry. The studio is currently working on The Casting of Frank Stone, a game set in the Dead by Daylight universe. Until Dawn arrives on PlayStation 5 and PC this fall.

      Products In This Article

Until Dawn (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

