
  What We'd Want From A Zelda 35th Anniversary Celebration






            Yesterday, Nintendo surprised everyone with a Direct announcing several things related to the 35th anniversary of the Super Mario series. These announcements include a collection of 3D Mario remasters, Super Mario All-Stars coming to Nintendo Switch Online, an enhanced port of Super Mario 3D World, a Super Mario Bros. battle royale, a mixed-reality Mario Kart product, and other in-game celebrations. The onslaught of news and games to look forward to got me thinking about what I'd love to see when my favorite Nintendo series, The Legend of Zelda, turns 35 years old early next year.

While my suggestions are loosely modeled after the announcements made during the Super Mario Direct, I did take some liberties in other places. Check out what I'd love to see from a Zelda 35th anniversary and chime in with your own suggestions in the comments!

Zelda Anniversary Collection

Alright, let's get the obvious one out of the way first. A Legend of Zelda anniversary collection for Switch is a no-brainer when it comes to celebrating 35 years since Link first ventured into Hyrule. We already have The Legend of Zelda, Zelda II: The Adventure of Link, and A Link to the Past through Nintendo Switch Online, as well as a great remake of Link's Awakening, so I would love to see this collection follow Mario's lead and focus on the 3D entries. We received excellent remasters of Wind Waker and Twilight Princess in HD on Wii U, so bringing them forward would be the first step, but why stop there? 3DS players enjoyed enhanced remasters of Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, complete with redone visuals. I'd love to see that visual style applied in HD and brought onto Switch as well. If Nintendo released a Zelda anniversary collection with HD versions of Ocarina of Time 3D, Majora's Mask 3D, Wind Waker HD, and Twilight Princess HD, the Switch would become unrivaled in its capabilities as a Zelda machine.

Ports of A Link Between Worlds and Skyward Sword

While a 3DS port might a bit more complicated than Nintendo porting Super Mario 3D World from Wii U to Switch, A Link Between Worlds is a game that deserves a refreshed lease on life. As one of the best 2D Zelda games to date, it's a shame to have it stranded on a device that many have replaced as their daily gaming companion. Additionally, while series producer Eiji Aonuma outright told me that a Skyward Sword port without motion controls would be, "close to impossible," I would still love to see that art style shine in HD, even if I still had to use motion controls.

Massive Info Dump on the Breath of the Wild sequel

It's been over a year since we've heard anyone at Nintendo talk about the Breath of the Wild sequel that was revealed at E3 2019. While we know some of the reasons it's getting a sequel, as well as the fact that the Breath of the Wild director is returning for the follow up, we don't know much else. What better reason could Nintendo have to spill more details than the series celebrating a milestone anniversary. I want first gameplay, some details on how it differs from the first Breath of the Wild, and, if Nintendo is feeling extra saucy, a release date.

In-Game Events and Content

Just like Nintendo did with Super Mario's 35th, it would be great to see the Zelda anniversary branch out to the company's other popular games. Give me the ability to craft Majora's Mask and the Master Sword and hang them on my wall in Animal Crossing: New Horizons, or let me add some Zelda enemies to my Super Mario Maker 2 courses (you can already play as Link!). Splatoon 2 could do a Splatfest asking players whether they prefer Ganon or Ganondorf, and I'd love to see Super Smash Bros. Ultimate go all out for the series' original swordsman with special Spirit Board events and maybe even a new character from the series (Impa would be an awesome addition alongside another Zelda stage).

First 4 Figures' Breath of the Wild statue

Physical Rewards from My Nintendo

Back in the Club Nintendo days, the publisher would reward its most loyal customers with physical rewards ranging from cartridge cases and posters to game soundtracks and statues. With the announcement of the Super Mario 35th anniversary, My Nintendo, the almost-exclusively digital loyalty program, opened up a way for members to earn a pin set featuring art from Mario's most classic games. Give us something similar for the Legend of Zelda. While pins are fine, I'd love for Nintendo to return to the days of offering amazing statues as exclusive rewards for those who have demonstrated they're dedicated fans of the franchise.

What's on your wishlist for a Legend of Zelda 35th anniversary celebration?

            .

Brian Shea
Digital Editor
Brian has written about video games for over a decade across multiple publications. When he's not writing or gaming, he's usually listening to music, watching UFC, or hopelessly rooting for a Baltimore or D.C. sports team. 

Email
Twitter

