
  Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom Spoilercast | All Things Nintendo






            This week on All Things Nintendo, we have a panel of four Game Informer editors to discuss The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. All four members – Brian Shea, Matt Miller, Kyle Hilliard, and Charles Harte – have beaten the game and are ready to break down all the biggest gameplay elements and story beats without fear of spoiling the experience. With that in mind, if you haven't finished The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, proceed with caution, as there are plentiful spoilers within this episode.

If you'd like to follow Brian on social media, you can do so on his Instagram @BrianPShea. You can follow Matt on Twitter: @MatthewRMiller. You can follow Kyle on Twitter: @KyleMHilliard. You can follow Charles on Twitter: @chuckduck365. 

The All Things Nintendo podcast is a weekly show where we can celebrate, discuss, and break down all the latest games, news, and announcements from the industry's most recognizable name. Each week, Brian is joined by different guests to talk about what's happening in the world of Nintendo. Along the way, they'll share personal stories, uncover hidden gems in the eShop, and even look back on the classics we all grew up with. A new episode hits every Friday!

Be sure to subscribe to All Things Nintendo on your favorite podcast platform. The show is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, and YouTube.

If you'd like to get in touch with the All Things Nintendo podcast, you can email AllThingsNintendo@GameInformer.com, messaging Brian on Instagram (@BrianPShea), or by joining the official Game Informer Discord server. You can do that by linking your Discord account to your Twitch account and subscribing to the Game Informer Twitch channel. From there, find the All Things Nintendo channel under "Community Spaces."

For Game Informer's other podcast, be sure to check out The Game Informer Show with host Alex Van Aken, which covers the weekly happenings of the video game industry!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Brian Shea
Online Content Director
Brian has written about video games for more than 15 years across multiple publications. Brian is also the host of All Things Nintendo, a weekly podcast focused on the news and games of Nintendo.

Email
Twitter

Charles Harte, 
Matt Miller, 
& Kyle Hilliard
contributed to this article.

