
  December Cover Revealed: Rainbow 6 Patriots






Ubisoft's tactical shooter series is back with bold new narrative direction. The December issue of Game Informer features 12 exclusive pages of coverage detailing Rainbow 6 Patriots, the controversial new entry in the Tom Clancy series that places gamers in the shoes of Team Rainbow, a homegrown terrorist uprising, and the civilians caught in the crossfire. This new terrorist threat, called the True Patriots, hopes to restore its interpretation of American values by beheading corporate America and overthrowing the government. As a member of a new Team Rainbow cast, players must ask themselves how far they are willing to go to stop the militia. 
“Terrorism has evolved, and so has Rainbow 6," said creative director David Sears. "In Rainbow 6 Patriots, all the team play, tactics, and realism that fans of the series love have been coupled with an exciting new narrative direction. This adds an unprecedented level of humanity that will make Rainbow 6 Patriots an extremely tense and immersive experience.”In addition to an in-depth look at the campaign, the cover story also explores the new tactical improvements being injected into the old Rainbow formula and addresses how developer Ubisoft Montreal hopes to recapture the multiplayer crown from Call of Duty and Battlefield. Beyond the Tom Clancy coverage, the December issue is packed with other must-read content. We prep you for Black Friday sales with the 2011 holiday gift guide, give you insight into four character classes in Star Wars: The Old Republic, and go-hands on with the Vita's launch game lineup. Also check out our new previews of Max Payne 3 and Mass Effect 3's multiplayer, plus the highly anticipated reviews of The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, Rayman: Origins, Saints Row: The Third, and Need for Speed: The Run. 
Click on the images below to see more detailed versions of our two covers.

Rainbow 6 Patriots doesn't come out for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, or PC until 2013, but be sure to visit our hub throughout the month for in-depth features on the bold new narrative approach, evolving gameplay mechanics, revamped multiplayer, and more. To watch a prototype video of Rainbow 6 Patriots, click here.
The issue should start reaching subscribers early next week, but if you can't wait for your post office, switch your subscription to the digital version (which releases on Tuesday, November 8) or sign up for a new digital subscription here.

