
  February Cover Revealed – Doom






After an 11-year hiatus, the first-person shooter that popularized the genre is finally coming back. In anticipation of this Doom revival, we traveled to id Software's Richardson, Texas headquarters to see how the game is coming together. We spent considerable hands-on time with the single-player campaign, multiplayer, and SnapMap user-generated content system, and in the aftermath Doom has vaulted into the upper echelon of our most anticipated games of 2016. 
Throughout our 12-page cover story, we dive deep into how id Software is taking the fast-paced, bloody good combat of the original Doom and infusing it with modern sensibilities. We speak with design director Marty Stratton and creative director Hugo Martin about everything from the new upgrade systems and the idTech 6 engine to demon designs and why they chose the arena multiplayer approach. 
Click the image below to see the full cover, front and back.

Get a glimpse into our Doom coverage with the trailer below.
Sorry, this video is not available
Beyond the blood and gore of Doom, the February issue is packed with worthwhile content. First, we look back at the highs and lows of 2015 and crown the game of the year in our highly anticipated annual Top 50 feature. (Check back on the site later today to see the full list of category winners and the readers poll results, as well.) Then we turn our gaze toward the future by outlining the features we'd love to see Nintendo incorporate into the NX system on the horizon. Jeff Marchiafava examines the challenges developers must overcome when designing a game to be intentionally difficult, and Kyle Hilliard looks back at what made Max Payne so special.
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week or two, but it will be available later today if you subscribe digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad,Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here. To create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Our Doom coverage doesn't end with the 12-page cover story. Return to our hub throughout the month for more information on the single-player campaign, arena multiplayer, and the SnapMap creation engine. You can access the hub by clicking on the banner below.

