
                                          NBA 2K20
                  


  Idris Elba, Rosario Dawson Headline Star-Studded Cast For NBA 2K20's MyCareer Story




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Publisher
2K Sports

Developer
Visual Concepts

Release
September 6, 2019

Rating
Everyone 10+

            This year's NBA 2K MyCareer story comes to us courtesy of SpringHill Entertainment, the production house created by LeBron James and his longtime associate Maverick Carter. Directed by Sheldon Candis, the story features arguably the best cast of any NBA 2K game to date, featuring star actors Idris Elba (The Wire, Beasts of No Nation), Rosario Dawson (Deathproof, He Got Game), Thomas Middleditch (Silicon Valley), Ernie Hudson (Ghostbusters), and Lamorne Morris (New Girl).

The story follows the career of Che, a star player for the fictitious Bay City Flames whose career trajectory derails following a showdown with his head coach regarding the treatment of an injured teammate. Fighting through the controversy, Che must fight against the perception that his social justice position makes him a problematic locker room presence and rebuild his reputation during the Portsmouth Invitational and Draft Combine. Expect a steady stream of NBA star cameos throughout the story from the likes of Anthony Davis, Kemba Walker, Scottie Pippen, and LeBron James.

“The story of ‘When The Lights Are Brightest’ in NBA 2K20 reflects the story of today’s modern athletes,” said SpringHill Entertainment CEO Maverick Carter in a press statement. “From dealing with the pressures of fame, demands on and off the court, and outside influences, athletes face a tremendous amount of obstacles. SpringHill Entertainment exists to tell compelling stories, and in this case, we were able to draw on our own experiences with LeBron and other athletes to create a narrative that’s authentic and a bit of a peek behind the curtain.”

You can watch a behind-the-scenes video breaking down the creation of this year's story here: 

NBA 2K20 releases on September 6 for PS4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC. You can play the demo starting August 21 on all platforms besides PC. To learn more about the game, read our preview of the changes coming to MyGM and MyLeague and the breakdown of the new gameplay innovations.

      Products In This Article

NBA 2K20

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 6, 2019

Purchase
More Info

