
  March Cover Revealed – Metro Exodus






After two successful games sets in the post-apocalyptic Moscow underground, the Metro series is ready for its moment in the sun. Ever since we watched the impressive debut footage at Microsoft's last E3 press conference, we were eager to learn more about Artyom's journey through the irradiated Russian countryside and how developer 4A Games hopes to pair the traditional, linear Metro experience with some of the open spaces and focused exploration of its progenitor – S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl. This past month, we journeyed to 4A Games' headquarters on the gorgeous Mediterranean island of Malta to find these answers and more.
The 14-page cover story that emerged from our visit is packed with new details about Metro Exodus. We sat down with creative director Andriy "Prof" Prokhorov, executive producer Jon Bloch, and others to discuss 4A Games' move from Kiev to Malta, chronicle the tricky task of evolving Metro from linear to open play spaces, and learn just how large these sandbox spaces get (we're talking orders of magnitude larger than anything in Last Light). 4A Games also shared many smaller details series fans won't want to miss. The feature touches on how weapon customization is changing in Exodus, the brand-new crafting system, and much more.
You can check out our cover by clicking the image below to open the full spread.

We also have a month of exclusive online coverage for Metro Exodus from me, Ben Hanson, and Javy Gwaltney that includes video interviews, close examinations of gameplay systems, exclusive screenshots, and more. Watch our coverage trailer for a tease of what's to come.
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our 14 pages of Metro Exodus coverage, the March issue is jam-packed with interesting features. Matt Miller goes hands-on with Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire, plundering the swashbuckling adventure for new details in anticipation of its pending release. Andrew Reiner peers into the twisted and tantalizing minds of Justin Roiland (Rick & Morty) and William Pugh (The Stanley Parable) by asking them to design sequels to beloved gaming franchises like Super Mario Bros., Sonic the Hedgehog, and Resident Evil. Elise Favis takes a closer examination of how the defeat of net neutrality could affect gamers in the coming years. We also have a four-page feature on Ni No Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom, a two-page break down on the expanded content coming to Middle-earth: Shadow of War, and a GI Classic examining the Metro series precursor, S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl. 
Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. Can’t wait that long? The digital edition of the issue is available later today on PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Click on the banner below to visit our special Metro Exodus hub. We'll regularly be adding new stories to it in the coming days and weeks, so if you want to know everything you can about 4A Games' latest effort be sure to bookmark it and check back in throughout the month.

