
                                          Red Dead Redemption
                  				 Review


  Rockstar Wrangles The Best Video Game Western Of All Time




Reviewed on PlayStation 3

Also on
PlayStation 4, Switch, Xbox 360

Publisher
Rockstar Games

Developer
Rockstar San Diego

Release
May 18, 2010

Rating
Mature

With high noon duels, lawless frontiers, and gruff leading men, the 
Western genre seemingly has all the essential pieces to make a smooth 
transition into video games. But as past six-shooters like Dead Man’s 
Hand, Call of Juarez, Gun, and Red Dead Revolver found out, dressing 
your scruffy hero in a duster and giving him a revolver isn’t enough to 
captivate audiences accustomed to firing rocket-propelled grenades and 
light machine guns. For Rockstar’s first full-fledged effort in the 
genre (the company purchased Red Dead Revolver from Capcom), it decided 
to do what it does best – explore the topic at hand with an immersive 
open world. 
Red Dead Redemption is set during the birth of the 
20th century, where the expansion-minded federal government is moving 
swiftly to domesticate the untamed frontier. With railroads and telegram
 lines connecting previously isolated communities, the new cowboys are 
exploitative businessmen and aggressive legislators aiming to expand 
their power bases. To keep this development moving along unabated, the 
feds have created the Agency, a new branch of law enforcement determined
 to rid the outer territories of the violent gangs running rampant.
John
 Marston used to be one of those outlaws; he’s got the scars and 
practiced trigger finger to prove it. But after his gang left him for 
dead during a robbery gone awry, Marston embraced the quiet life, 
settling on a ranch, taking a wife, and having his first child. Like his
 spiritual predecessor, Grand Theft Auto IV protagonist Niko Bellic, 
Marston eventually discovers that running from his past doesn’t mean he 
can escape it. Using evidence of his past transgressions against him, 
the Agency makes a persuasive proposition: Hunt down the last living 
members his former gang, or kiss family life goodbye. Marston 
begrudgingly grabs his six-shooter and heads out in search of his 
long-lost brothers in arms.
While Red Dead Redemption’s setup 
reads like a Clint Eastwood script, the gameplay construct is pulled 
straight from Grand Theft Auto. In order to track down and confront his 
wayward outlaw friends, Marston has to consort with an unsavory cast of 
snake oil salesmen, drunks, grave robbers, washed up gunslingers, 
dissidents, and corrupt politicians. Assistance doesn’t come easy, as 
Marston must complete fetch quests and rack up kill counts to earn their
 trust before they divulge any useful information. Those who tired of 
the errand boy mission structure of Grand Theft Auto IV won’t find any 
solace in Red Dead – to get what he needs, Marston helps peddle cure-all
 tonics, aids in finding a lost treasure, puts in time herding cattle on
 the ranch, and rescues kidnapped citizens. The game is at its best when
 it embraces gunpowder-centric missions that only a Western era game can
 deliver; my favorites include assaulting a gang stronghold with a posse
 of regulators, protecting a supply train on horseback, and fighting up a
 treacherous mountainside to locate an enemy camp.
Given the 
limitations of the era’s weaponry, Red Dead’s gunplay is surprisingly 
exciting. Each weapon – from six-shooters and repeaters to sniper rifles
 and Gatling guns – has a distinct feel, and the hit detection system 
couples with Natural Motion’s Euphoria animation technology to create 
visceral shootouts. Shotgun blasts blow enemies violently backward, 
sniper shots to the shoulder spin bandits around, and if you nail a 
fleeing enemy in the leg, he’ll feebly crawl toward the nearest cover. 
When large groups of bandits descend on your position, you can activate 
the slow-motion Dead Eye ability to paint a large swath of enemies and 
watch in awe as Marston effortlessly puts them all in an early grave. 
Less practiced gunslingers can stick with the friendly snap-to auto-aim 
mechanic borrowed from GTA IV, but if you want to up the challenge, I 
suggest turning it off. 

The story moves along at a fast clip when 
you’re hot on the heels of your former gang, but the second section of 
the game finds Marston deeply involved in the birth stages of the 
Mexican civil war. To meet his obligations to the Agency, he must first 
get cozy with both the corrupt ruler of the border region and the 
upstart rebel hell-bent on taking power for himself. This tangential 
plot drags on far too long without engaging the task at hand, and the 
game’s momentum suffers for it.
But with such an expansive land to
 explore, Red Dead Redemption is even more alluring when you’re roaming 
between missions. Given the large territory, the game has a more 
measured pace than GTA, which gives you time to admire the gorgeous 
vistas on display all around you. With desolate Mexican drylands, 
dust-swept plains, and the towering northern mountain ranges, Rockstar 
perfectly captures the untamed majesty of the North American landscape. 
If you get tired of galloping between far-reaching destinations, simply 
set up camp and use the fast travel feature to get back on task.
Though
 the world of Red Dead Redemption is immense, it’s far from barren. 
Myriad systems of engagement breathe life into the world of Red Dead, 
compensating for the narrative lulls. The countryside is populated by 
packs of animals, traveling citizens, and bandit strongholds. Once you 
embrace the rural rhythm of the Wild West, the game opens itself up much
 like The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. While traveling on horseback to a 
mission, I often found myself side-tracked in pursuit of the many 
sub-quests. You can sharpen your survival skills by collecting flora, 
hunting dangerous animals like grizzly bears and cougars, scavenging for
 treasure, or perfecting your sharp-shooting skills by targeting the 
buzzards circling overhead. Each of these tasks has its own progression 
system, and your fame will increase along with your ranks. Colorful 
strangers also riddle the landscape, and these side missions offer a 
fresh change of pace from dealing with the miscreants Marston must aid 
in the narrative.
The shantytowns and bustling cities littering 
the land offer an equally deep level of engagement. While in town you 
can shop for provisions, watch a hilariously offensive silent film 
warning of the dangers of women’s suffrage, take a night watch shift to 
protect the sleeping village from burglars, play a game of horseshoes, 
or head to the saloon to play a game of chance like five finger fillet, 
blackjack, liar’s dice, or Texas hold ’em. Try to cheat at poker and you
 may find yourself facing your accuser outside the cantina. Though the 
saloons have plenty of ladies of ill repute vying for your attention, 
don’t expect any GTA-style sexual congress – John Marston is a 
faithfully married man.
Like Fable, how you conduct yourself 
affects how townspeople, lawmen, and bandits react to you. Help a 
stranded man retrieve his stolen horse, and your honor will increase. As
 your honorable reputation grows, people start to give you the benefit 
of the doubt and let small acts of disobedience slide. But if you spend 
your free time robbing banks or killing innocent passersby, citizens may
 start forming posses to hunt you down.
Once Marston finishes his 
tour of duty in Mexico and returns north of the border, he heads to 
Blackwater, the region’s capital city, to work with the Agency directly 
to find the leader of his former gang. With cobblestone streets, a 
cinema, and automobiles, evidence of technology’s reach is everywhere, 
and you get a sense that everything you just experienced in the open 
plains is about to disappear. Red Dead then culminates with a memorable,
 unexpected finale that strays from traditional storytelling techniques 
and instead relies on the sense of immersiveness only a video game can 
impart.
Red Dead allows you to round up a posse of friends to roam
 the game world, which also serves as the multiplayer lobby. In this 
free roam mode, your posse can terrorize towns or try to collect the 
bounty on another gang of reckless outlaws. At any time, you can jump 
into competitive multiplayer matches as well. These modes are 
Western-themed versions of individual and team-based deathmatch and 
capture the flag modes, plus another mode that tasks you with collecting
 more gold than your opponents. No matter the format, each match starts 
with a Mexican standoff, with the last man standing gaining a head start
 on the rest of the competition. Dead Eye carries over to multiplayer, 
but works in real time. While this may not be as powerful a tool as it 
is in single-player, it preserves the gameplay balance and comes in 
handy when you find yourself behind a group of enemies. With 50 levels 
and unlockable character skins, mounts, and titles, the multiplayer is a
 fully featured complement to the excellent single-player experience.
To
 succeed where other Western games have failed, Red Dead Redemption 
deftly recreates a sandbox playground of a tumultuous historical period 
swept away by technological progress. The game perfectly captures the 
expansiveness of frontier life and the gritty gunplay of spaghetti 
westerns, rightfully earning its place alongside the great Western films
 and the best Rockstar games.

9.75

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptTranspose the Grand Theft Auto gameplay template onto a Wild West setting
GraphicsBreathtaking scenery, unrivaled horse animations, and vastly improved cinematic cutscenes over GTA IV make this the best-looking Rockstar game to date
SoundFrom pitch-perfect gunshots to the daunting rumble of prairie thunderstorms, the remarkable attention to audio detail brings the world to life
PlayabilityThe airtight aiming and cover system will be familiar to anyone who’s played GTA IV, and the horses control better than those I’ve ridden in any other game
EntertainmentRockstar ably recreates an expansive send-up to frontier life and gives players enough variety to keep cowboys engaged for several fortnights
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Red Dead Redemption

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Switch, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

May 18, 2010 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), August 17, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

