
  Skyrim: Building Better Combat






In game development, the visual improvements, non-player character AI
 tweaks, and new storytelling philosophies are all for naught if the 
base activity the player performs the most frequently is uninteresting 
or unrefined. In the case of an action role-playing game like The Elder 
Scrolls V: Skyrim, those activities are swinging swords, shooting 
arrows, or casting spells at the myriad bloodthirsty enemies rushing 
toward you in foreboding dungeons of Tamriel. Aware of the combat 
shortcomings and exploits players used in Oblivion, the developers at 
Bethesda Studios went back to the drawing board to forge a new direction
 for Skyrim. 
“We wanted to make it more tactile in your hands,” game director Todd
 Howard says. “I think if you look at our previous stuff I sometimes 
equate it to fighting with chopsticks – you sit there and swing them in 
front of yourself.” 
Bethesda’s solution is a new two-handed combat system that allows 
players to equip any weapon or spell to either one of their character’s 
free hands. This flexible platform opens up countless play styles – dual
 wielding, two-handed weapons, the classic sword and shield combo, 
ranged weapons, or even equipping two different spells. Switching 
between loadouts on the fly is made easier thanks to a new 
quick-select menu that allows you to “bookmark” all of your favorite 
spells, shouts, and weapons for easy access.
Taking Up The Blade
Repetition can be a game developer's worst enemy. As players move 
through the world slashing at enemies thousands of times, the gravity of
 the action dissipates to the point where it becomes as thoughtless an 
exercise as flipping a light switch. With Skyrim's combat system, 
Bethesda wants to restore the visceral nature of hand-to-hand combat. 
The first step? Changing the pace of the close quarters battles.
In the early stages of development, Bethesda watched fighting videos 
to study how people react during melee battles. The team found that most
 encounters featured more jostling and staggering than was present in 
past Elder Scrolls titles. Using the Havok Behavior animation system, 
the team is more accurately mimicking the imbalance prevalent in melee 
combat by adding staggering affects and camera shake. Don't expect 
button-mashing marathons where the attacker with a bigger life pool wins
 the war of attrition. If you're not careful on defense you may get 
knocked around, losing your balance and leaving yourself exposed for a 
damaging blow that can turn the tide of the battle. Knowing when to 
block, when to strike, and when to stand your ground is key to 
prevailing in combat. 
“There's a brutality to [the combat] both in the flavor of the world,
 and one of you is going to die,” Howard explains. “I think you get very
 used the idea that enemies are all there for you to mow through, but it
 doesn't seem like someone's life is going to end. We're trying to get 
that across.”
Nothing drives this brutality home more than the introduction of 
special kill animations. Depending on your weapon, the enemy, and the 
fight conditions, your hero may execute a devastating finishing move 
that extinguishes enemies with a stylistic flourish. “You end up doing 
it a lot in the game, and there has to be an energy and a joy to it,” 
Howard says.
As with Oblivion, players have several options for melee combat. Your
 warrior can equip swords, shields, maces, axes, or two-handed weapons. 
Specializing in a particular weapon is the best way to go, as it gives 
you the opportunity to improve your attacking skills with special perks.
 For instance, the sword perk increases your chances of landing a 
critical strike, the axe perk punishes enemies with residual bleeding 
damage after each blow, and the mace perk ignores armor on your enemies 
to land more powerful strikes.
A good offense must be accompanied by a good defense. To make 
defending a less passive activity, Bethesda has switched to a timing 
based blocking system that requires players to actively raise their 
shields to take the brunt of the attack. If you hold down the block 
button, your character will attempt to execute a bash move. If you catch
 a bandit off guard with the bash while he's attacking, it knocks him 
back and exposes him to a counter or power attack. Players can block and
 bash with two-handed weapons as well, but it isn't as effective as the 
shield. Warriors who prefer the sword-and-shield approach can increase 
their defensive capabilities with shield perks that give them elemental 
protection from spells.
Bethesda also smartly changed the pace at which characters backpedal,
 which removes the strike-and-flee tactic frequently employed in 
Oblivion. In Skyrim you can't bob and weave like a medieval Muhammad Ali
 as you could in Oblivion. Players can still dodge attacks from slower 
enemies like frost trolls, but don’t expect to backpedal out of harms 
way against charging enemies. If you want to flee, you must turn your 
back to the enemy and hit the sprint button, leaving you exposed to an 
attack as you high tail it to safety. 

Conjuring Better Spell Casting
Keeping in line with the philosophy of making the combat more 
tactile, Bethesda took inspiration for its spell casting from an 
unlikely source in Irrational Games' BioShock. Fighting his way through 
the city of Rapture, Howard was impressed with how Ken Levine's team 
visualized the power of the plasmids in your hands. They're adopting a 
similar approach for Skyrim.
“Before when we had magic, it never felt to us like you were actually
 doing it,” Howard admits. “It was a separate button, it flew out of 
your fist, and you could have a shield in your hand or a two 
handed-weapon – you could do it with anything.”
In Oblivion spells were cast with a face button, which allowed you to
 equip traditional weapons for melee combat and deftly cast spells 
between swings. By forcing players to equip a spell with one of their 
hands, players must make more of a commitment to learning the arcane 
arts. The ability to equip two different spells on your left and right 
hand raises the question – can you combine more than one spell? “We're 
not talking about that,” Howard says with a smile. “We're not sure. We'd
 like to; it'd be awesome.”
Even if you can't combine spells, magicka students will have no 
shortage of options, with over 85 spells divided into five schools of 
magic – destruction, restoration, illusion, alteration, and conjuration.
 Longtime Elder Scrolls fans may notice that the school of mysticism is 
absent. That's an intentional move on Bethesda's part. “It always felt 
like the magical school of mysticism – isn't that redundant?” Howard 
says. The spells formerly housed under the domain of mysticism have been
 moved to other schools of magic. 
One of the more alluring changes to the spellcasting in Skyrim is how
 you can employ spells in different ways. For instance, you could blast 
enemies with a flame ball from afar, hold the button down to wield the 
spell like a flame thrower, place a rune on the ground to create an 
environmental trap that spontaneously combusts when an enemy steps on 
it, or equip the spell with both hands to deliver high damage fireball 
attacks that drain your magicka reserves quickly. The shock and frost 
spells give players an equal amount of flexibility.
The Havok Behavior technology gives the spells more visual flair than
 we've seen in past Elder Scrolls games as well. If you cast a frost 
spell, you'll see the effects on the enemy's skin. If you're wielding 
the flame spell like a flame thrower, the environment will catch fire 
for a short while and burn anything that comes into contact with it.
More so than in Oblivion, Skyrim’s new magic system also gives 
players legitimate benefits to using one attacking spell over the other.
 Fire deals the highest amount of damage, lighting drains the enemy’s 
magicka, and frost drains stamina and slows down enemies physically. 
This gives players more incentive to use particular spells against 
specific enemies. Why shoot fireballs at a wizard when you can 
simultaneously drain his heath and magicka with a shock spell? “There’s a
 gaminess to it that we didn’t really have before,” Howard says. 
If you come face to face with another wizard, you’ll want to keep an 
attacking spell in one hand and improve your defense by equipping a ward
 spell in the other. Suddenly, magic duels become much more interesting,
 as you must attack at the opportune time, use the ward as a shield when
 your opponent is casting spells your way, and manage your magicka level
 by consuming potions. 

Dealing Damage From The Shadows
Magicians and warriors aren’t the only play styles enjoying the 
benefit of combat enhancements. If you prefer to do your killing from 
afar with a bow and arrow or assassinating enemies from the shadows, 
Bethesda has some improvements in store for you as well.
Ranged weapons could be effective in Oblivion once you improved your 
skill level, but you had to pierce enemies with several arrows to take 
them down. After playing an Oblivion mod that turned the bow and arrow 
into a formidable weapon capable of one-hit kills, Bethesda decided to 
adopt that approach. It now takes a lot longer to get off a shot, but 
the arrows are much more powerful than before.
As in Oblivion, you can zoom to aim, and the longer you keep the bow 
drawn the more powerful your shot will be. Unlike Oblivion, the arrows 
now violently impact enemies with a satisfying thud. To keep players 
from coasting through the world plucking enemies from afar, Bethesda has
 significantly altered the arrow economy to make them a valuable but 
limited option. You won't be rolling into combat stacked with 50 Daedric
 arrows anymore. Though you don't have much defense when using the bow 
and arrow, if an enemy gets too close for comfort you can still execute a
 bash move, which knocks your foe off balance and gives you time to 
create distance between you and your target.
Stealth basically works the same as it did in Oblivion, but Bethesda 
has slightly altered what happens once enemies detect your presence. Now
 when NPCs think they see or heard something, they go into an alert 
state. Characters with a higher sneak skill will have more time to duck 
back around the corner or find sanctuary in the shadows. This new system
 eliminates the sudden attacks that sometimes caught players off guard 
in Oblivion. 
Once you successfully sneak up behind an unsuspecting victim, you can
 unleash a deadly blow with the dagger, an almost useless weapon in 
previous Elder Scrolls games that is receiving a major boost in Skyrim. 
“Now when you sneak up behind guys, the dagger does something like 10x 
damage,” Howard says. “I don’t know if we’re going to keep that, but you
 feel like you should be killing the guy if you’ve gotten that close and
 you have a dagger.”
Though the dagger is still considered a one-handed weapon skill, the perks for the weapon are housed under the stealth banner.The Dragonborn Prophecy Fulfilled
As the Dragonborn, players can wield the dangerous dragon shouts 
during battle as well. The shouts may have magical properties, like the 
ability to slow time or call a dragon to your aid, but they are 
different than magic in that every character can employ them regardless 
of their spell casting skills. If you want to learn more about this 
supplemental power, read our in-depth discussion here.
Binding all of these improvement together into a cohesive system, 
Bethesda's reinvigorated Elder Scrolls combat looks to be taking a large
 step forward.

