
  Best Cozy Games To Play On Nintendo Switch 






            Sometimes, you just need to sit down and enjoy some cozy games to unwind. Whether it's taking a few moments to yourself after a hard day, or bundling up in a blanket burrito with a hot beverage and your Nintendo Switch - self-care is self-love. For those looking for a cozy game to play on their Nintendo Switch, we've got a few picks for you to consider.

Best cozy games to play on Nintendo Switch 

The obvious addition to this list is Animal Crossing: New Horizons, so I'm going to leave that as an honorable mention to make room for other titles so that they can get some spotlight. So, without further ado, here are some cozy games to get on your Switch to get crackin' on some relaxation. 

            Coffee Talk

            Have coffee, will travel - or at least talk to some really cool people

            Coffee Talk doesn't try to be anything it's not, and that's what makes it perfect. This coffee-brewing adventure is a heart-to-heart experience that became a therapeutic safe haven for me during a massive period of change amidst a global pandemic. A barista journey with a fantasy twist, I found meaningful conversation, interactions, and an avenue of "letting it all out and letting it all go," just with Coffee Talk I got to do this in a pixelated fashion with vampires, orcs, and everything else you can think of. It's a game about solving peoples' problems, no matter how big or small, and it inspired empathy during a time where many of us felt alone

Plus, you can flirt with a giant orc lady football player, enough said. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            Cozy Grove

            Like Animal Crossing but with ghost friends. 

            Cozy Grove is perfect if you're a fan of the Animal Crossing series, and it's amazing even if you're not. It's a real-life simulator that takes place on an evolving, haunted island. But haunted isn't a bad thing, not here. You'll play as a Spirit Scout that will need to complete daily tasks and help learn about (become friends with) and help those that have passed on find peace before the ultimate goodbye. With a little love and care, you can bring color back to the world of Cozy Grove, which makes it a rewarding experience that you can pick up and put down whenever you choose. 

I also recommend this game if you suffer from anxiety, the daily tasks that are capped are a fine way to pass the time and provide some order when needed. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            Spiritfarer

            Speaking of ghosts...

            Spiritfarer, like Cozy Grove, is another adventure that puts ghosties in a good light. Another very cozy game that puts dying in a more familial light. Playing as a ferrymaster, you'll need to help the deceased move on. Even better, you can build a boat that allows you to explore this beautifully artistic world while becoming close to the spirits that inhabit this place. But nothing good lasts forever, that's a more comforting notion than you might think, and eventually your transparent friends will find their center and be ready to move on the real Afterlife. You get to help them do that, you get to help them find their ultimate peace. 

You'll also do a lot of fishing, cooking, crafting, and so much more. Like Cozy Grove, those tasks make it easy to zone in and bliss out. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            ABZÛ

            Explore the depths of the ocean with no limits. 

            The ocean is a mysterious world, one that we still don't know everything about. That mystery is enticing but in real life? Can also be quite dangerous. In the world of ABZÛ, you can explore to your heart's content without any fear of danger. Explore the ocean's depths with complete freedom and a soundtrack meant to lull. From sharks that are merely interested passerbys to elegant jellyfish moseying their way towards the surface; ABZÛ is a calming game about doing exactly what it is you want to do. Explore, be free, and live in the moment. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            Shape of the World

            A psychedelic trip meant to relax and enrich your mind

            Shape of the World may, at first glance, remind you of games like Gris (which is another phenomenal pick, by the way), but it more than stands on its own merit. This is very much a psychedelic adventure that puts you into a world that morphs and evolves the more you explore. Vibrantly color and enriching in how it progresses, Shape of the World encourages you to reflect on your experience and explore with no fear. 

It's basically a walking simulator, but to put it just in that category would be unfair. Unwind, venture out, and allow he world to grow around you the way it is meant to grow and learn how to enjoy that progress rather than fear it; a lesson that very much brings myself comfort in daily life and I hope it does the same for you. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            There are so many more cozy games out there for different types of people. From puzzles to repetitious tasks, from hilarity to just enjoying the world, here are a few more picks to choose from if you've already burned through the above list: 

Night in the Woods
The Last Campfire
My Time At Portia
Yoshi's Crafted World
Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
Skyrim
Gris
Stardew Valley
Animal Crossing New Horizons

So go forth and wrap yourself in that blanket burrito and harness your inner comfiness. You deserve it. 

      Products In This Article

Animal Crossing: New Horizons

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 20, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Spiritfarer

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

August 18, 2020

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

