
  Blair Witch Is Getting A New VR Experience Just In Time For Halloween






            What is scarier than Blair Witch? Blair Witch in VR and the folks over at Bloober Team are all over it. Blair Witch: Oculus Quest Edition is a new way to experience this haunting tale and it's coming out just in time for Halloween.

Blair Witch: Oculus Quest Edition is a new version of the Blair Witch story from the polish studio Bloober Team. This experience was built from the ground up with virtual reality in mind with the help of the twisted minds behind Layers of Fear. 

This story is heavily story-driven and aims to put players right in the shoes of the Blair Witch's next victim, experiencing first hand the fear that goes with knowing you're marked next. 

When the Blair Witch first hit theaters, social media wasn't what it was today. The marketing of the film and the video camera style perspective had many viewers debating that this could actually be real. Obviously, it wasn't, but for that time? The marketing was perfect and the story was terrifying. Blair Witch instantly solidified itself as a cult classic and has spawned several sequels and Bloober's own game that launched last year. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

According to the studio, the Blair Witch VR experience will offer total immersion in addition to new creature encounters, a terrifying audio experience, and improved mechanical elements to make the game feel more real. Players will be able to catch and throw objects, stack objects, break branches, set markers, and open up doors, gates, cars, and even locks. 

Most importantly: You can now pet the dog in VR. Yes, we know, we should have led with this but we honestly wanted to save the best for last. In VR, you can pet the dog Bullet to let him know that he's the goodest of good boys while also changing up his look. Think guard dog/best friend meets fashion. 

You can even give him treats! Game of the Year, 'nuff said. 

Blair Witch: Oculus Quest Edition makes its way onto the Quest Library on October 29 for $29.99. This game will also be making its way to other VR platforms at a later date. 

      Products In This Article

Blair Witch

Platform:

Quest, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation VR, PC

Release Date:

August 30, 2019 (Xbox One, PC), December 3, 2019 (PlayStation 4), June 25, 2020 (Switch), October 29, 2020 (Quest), August 12, 2021 (PlayStation VR)

Purchase
More Info

