
  Call Of Duty: Black Ops Cold War Firebase Z Zombies Map Revealed






            A new zombie experience comes to Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War with Firebase Z. Firebase Z is the latest map to arrive for the Zombies mode of the shooter, continuing the Dark Aether narrative into season two. 

Black Ops Cold War Zombies will be getting the new Firebase Z map on February 4, making it the perfect co-op experience to get down with on Valentine's Day (or not, but it'd be a lot cooler if you did). The new map will be free for all players and will bring players to Outpost 25 following the destruction of the WWII-era Projekt Endstation site in Poland. These events set the course for the Dark Aether outbreak, an outbreak that will continue its storyline well into season two with the newest map. 

Treyarch

Treyarch has confirmed that it will have more to reveal about the latest drop in the "coming weeks" and will be celebrating "115 Day" on Friday, January 15 with even more Firebase Z details. 

This reveal comes at the same time as the mode being free-to-play across all platforms for a limited time; fans don't even need to own Black Ops Cold War in order to get in on the action. 

For those craving that Zombies experience right this minute, the new Raid map for Onslaught is now available for PlayStation players alongside the new Wakizashi Sword (which is not platform-specific). 

Excited to dive into the new Black Ops Cold War Zombies Firebase Z map next month? Sound off with your thoughts in the comment section below! You can also see what we thought of the latest Call of Duty experience with our full review right here. 

[Source: Treyarch]

            .

Liana Ruppert
Associate Editor 
With an arguably unhealthy obsession with Dragon Age and Mass Effect, Liana is wildly passionate about all things in the gaming community. From shooters, to RPGs, if it's out - she's playing it. She's also likely to die from hoarding gaming collectibles.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 13, 2020

Purchase
More Info

