
  Fallout 4: New Vegas Overhaul Mod Debuts Remarkable New Trailer






            Fallout 4: New Vegas is another total conversion mod led by an impassioned team that aims to give fans of the Wastleland a more modernized New Vegas experience. This fan-driven project brings the best of what we loved about Obsidian's Fallout: New Vegas and brings it wholly into the world of the more upgraded Fallout 4.

Like Skyblivion, which we also talked about today, this is another one of those mod projects I've been covering in media since it began. It's one I have shared across many sites and will continue to do so until its full launch and beyond. The dedication the team has to this total conversion project is admirable and the amount of details that this crew is pouring into it means nothing but good things for those that loved New Vegas.

The team behind Fallout 4: New Vegas just uploaded a new video to celebrate New Vegas' 10-year anniversary that shares a comparison look between the original New Vegas and their remake of a sorts: 

For those that are just now coming into knowledge about this project, Fallout 4: New Vegas is a total conversion mod that has been in development for years. With this mod having been approved by the Bethesda team, this passionate group of fans have made sure that they approached this venture legally, carefully, and with all of the love that they have for this franchise. 

The team has always done well with frequent updates on development, even with small updates regarding upgraded mechanics or even a new retexture. This mod blends the best of both worlds with New Vegas inside of Fallout 4. We've been following our friends on this endeavor for years, and this undertaking continues to impress with each released update. This team of talented modders have done a fantastic job at keeping those interested in this ambitious project tuned into its progress. 

While this project is exciting and looks like it's making incredible progress, it is still without a release date for PC players. With more work to be done, hopefully, we will have a release window soon. 

To learn even more about the road so far for Fallout 4: New Vegas, you can check out this team's official website right here! You can also learn more about mods with another entry into our Mod Corner segment with this creepy Fallout New Vegas experience that transforms the game into a horror title. 

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015

Purchase
More Info

Fallout New Vegas

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

October 19, 2010

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

