
  Mod Corner: Fallout 4 Is Much Better When Ron Perlman Narrates Your Death






            Fallout 4 wasn't a hit with everyone, but this game gave us Piper and Nick Valentine, so we're thankful. For those that are still on the fence about how they feel about the latest entry into the single-player branch of Fallout, maybe Ron Perlman's husky tones will be enough to persuade you. 

For this week's Mod Corner, we're throwing it back to an older mod that I can't seem to quit no matter how hard I try. Every time I find myself booting up Fallout 4 (mostly because my character looks like Dorian Pavus from Dragon Age), this is always the first mod I make sure to toggle on. 

Perlman narrated Fallout, Fallout 2, Fallout 3, Fallout Tactics, Fallout: New Vegas, and Fallout 4's trailers with that iconic "War, war never changes" line. He also does an official voice in Fallout 4 with the War Never Changes quest, but his dulceat tones deserve more screen time. 

But what does it do? 

The Ron Perlman Fallout 4 mod alters the death music in the game. If you die embarrassingly, don't fret. Just wait. Wait for the dramatic camera pan and you'll hear that deep Perlman voice narrate your untimely demise. It is suspenseful, it's glorious, and it is 100 percent totally unnecessary. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

What this mod includes is six narrations from Fallout 1 with the appropriate edits to make sure it stays inline with the plot. There are also three presets with Normal, Medium, and Loud for those that want a little customization in how this narration plays out. You can hear the death tracks in action in the video above. 

Is this mod as ground breaking as some of our other submissions? Nah, but Fallout 4 has surprisingly come up a lot in conversation within the community over the past month, so figured it was the perfect time to feature one of my favorite little additions. 

If you want more Perlman in Fallout 4, check out this mod right here. 

      Products In This Article

Fallout 4

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 10, 2015

Purchase
More Info

