
  Naughty Dog Rebrands 'Outbreak Day' In Light Of COVID-19 For The Last Of Us Fans






            Every September 26 for the past seven years, The Last of Us fans joined Naughty Dog in celebrating an incredible PlayStation experience. This year, however, a key change is being made to the name of this annual celebration in light of COVID-19. 

Previously, this date was secured as Outbreak Day given the nature of infection within the game universe itself. With the number of deaths due to COVID-19 on a global scale with many areas still far from the point of containment, the team over at Naughty Dog wanted to make a change out of respect. 

No longer called Outbreak Day, every September 26 from here on out will be called The Last of Us Day. Short, sweet, to the point. No confusion on the game being celebrated, no correlation to real-life events that are still currently in progress. 

Naughty Dog took to Twitter to relay the change, saying that due to the nature of this year's events and the ongoing issues surrounding COVID-19, that they "didn't feel right continuing on under the Outbreak Day banner." 

The company added, "While the name and the date are rooted in the fiction of the game, September 26 means so much more than lore. It's about showing our appreciation to our fans." 

Previous years celebrating the Last of Us franchise included sales on merch, game discounts, fan tributes, and so much more. This year, Naughty Dog is celebrating the launch of The Last of Us Part II and teases "a lot of exciting things planned and we can't wait to share them with you in just a few days."

New DLC? We can dream, Harold. 

The Last of Us Part II is available now on PlayStation 4. Thoughts on the name change and their reasoning behind it? Thoughts on the Naughty Dog sequel? Shout them out loud and proud in the comment section below!

[Source: Twitter]

            .

Liana Ruppert
Associate Editor 
With an arguably unhealthy obsession with Dragon Age and Mass Effect, Liana is wildly passionate about all things in the gaming community. From shooters, to RPGs, if it's out - she's playing it. She's also likely to die from hoarding gaming collectibles.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

The Last of Us Part II

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

June 19, 2020

Purchase
More Info

The Last of Us Remastered Edition

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

July 29, 2014

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

