
  Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice Invades Dark Souls 3 With This Weapons Mod






Dark Souls 3 is a stunning game, but what could make it even better? A ton of things, actually; that's why there are so many mods out there. But one weapons mod, in particular, brings the world of Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice into the mix. There is even some Sekiro armor thrown in as well, in addition to more spells.

This Dark Souls 3 mod brings some of the most iconic weapons seen in the newer Sekiro game into the experience. This mod brings in a plethora of unique Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice weapons into Dark Souls 3, in addition to unique move sets that go along with them. 

This mod is constantly being updated, which means more and more weapons are being added. Regarding what is currently available with the Dark Souls crossover, the below Sekiro weapons can be found: 

Snake Eyes Handgonne
Phanom Kunai
Talon of Hatred
Kumogiri & Ashina Greatbow
Blades of Conquest
Tomb Greatstaff
Nitghtjar Sickle
Kusabimaru
Flame Vent

The mod creator also showed off an image of what these weapons look like: 

Nexus Mods

A few armor pieces from Sekiro have also been added, including the Golden Crest Helm, the Sword Saint's Garb, and the Sword Saint's skirt. 

The following spells are also included, though they can only be cast using R2 with Kusabimaru: 

Whirlwind Slash
Nightjar Slash: Reversal
Ichimonji: Double
Ashina Cross
Praying Strikes: Exorcism
Shadowrush
Dragon Flash
One Mind
Floating Passage
Spiral Cloud Passage
Sakura Dance
Empowered Mortal Draw

The mod itself is for PC players only (which is to be expected since console mod support is still incredibly limited outside of Bethesda games), and can be downloaded right here. You'll need to also have Mod Engine installed, so if you don't have that already you can get it at this link (for free). 

Want more mods? Check out a few of my other favorite Mod Corner picks below: 

The Most Hilarious Fallout Mods You Need Right Now
Bernie Sanders Inauguration Meme Invades A Ton Of Games, Including Dark Souls
Bring Dragon Age's Thedas Into Elder Scrolls' Tameriel With These Mods

Thoughts on the Dark Souls 3 mod that brings in Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice items? What other game weapons would you like to see added into the world of Dark Souls? Sound off with your thoughts in the comment section below! You can also hit me up if you're looking for a specific game for mod recommendations! 

[Source: Nexus Mods]

      Products In This Article

Dark Souls III

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

April 12, 2016

Purchase
More Info

Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2019

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

