
  Sony Clarifies Marvel's Spider-Man PS5 Upgrade Confusion






            With many confirmations recently about select titles getting free next gen upgrades, many were wondering if Marvel's Spider-Man would also get the same treatment. Sony has clarified some of the confusion regarding next gen upgrades. 

At this time, there are no plans for free PS5 upgrades for PS4 Marvel's Spider-Man owners in order to get the Remastered version. Marvel's Spider-Man is backwards compatible and that the PS4 launch version (not the upgraded version) will be playable on PS5. 

In a recent statement provided by Sony to Kotaku, the company clarified that the Remastered edition is included in the Spider-Man: Miles Morales Ultimate Edition. PS4 Miles Morales purchases do get a free PS5 upgrade, but that doesn't apply to the base game. 

Here is the full statement: 

Marvel’s Spider-Man: Remastered is an enhanced version of Marvel’s Spider-Man, and is included as part of Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales Ultimate Edition for the PlayStation 5. In addition, players who purchase Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales on PlayStation 4 can upgrade at no additional cost to the PS5 version of Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales and can take advantage of a paid-upgrade to download Marvel’s Spider-Man: Remastered.

There are no plans currently to offer Marvel’s-Spider-Man: Remastered as a standalone. Players with a copy of Marvel’s Spider-Man for PS4 can purchase Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales Ultimate Edition to experience Marvel’s Spider-Man: Remastered on PS5. Marvel’s Spider-Man for PS4 also will be backwards compatible on PS5.

The Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales Ultimate Edition retails for $70 and is a must-buy option for those wanting to play as Peter Parker once more with the Remastered version on the PlayStation 5.  For those just interested in Miles' story, the standalone continuation of the Spidery story with Morales as the protagonist will upgrade from the PS4 version to the PS5 version at no cost. 

Basically, you need to buy Miles Morales if you want to play the remastered version of the game. 

[Source: Kotaku]

            .

Liana Ruppert
Associate Editor 
With an arguably unhealthy obsession with Dragon Age and Mass Effect, Liana is wildly passionate about all things in the gaming community. From shooters, to RPGs, if it's out - she's playing it. She's also likely to die from hoarding gaming collectibles.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

November 12, 2020

Purchase
More Info

Marvel's Spider-Man

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

September 7, 2018

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

