
  The Resident Evil Village Collector's Edition In Japan Is Special, But It'll Also Cost You $1,800






            Earlier this month, Capcom gave us an extensive first look at gameplay for the upcoming Resident Evil Village in addition to a detailed showing of the different collector's editions available worldwide. Japan, however, took an already awesome collector's edition and made it even better — at least for those that have $1,800 to spare. 

The Complete Set Collector's Edition comes with the standard Chris Redfield statue, a commemorative box, an art book, and more but it also comes with a wearable replica of Chris' coat. That swanky style can be yours but it'll cost you, because this particular set retails for $1,800 (or 192,500 yen in Japan). 

Capcom

This isn't the first time Capcom has done this, especially regarding the Resident Evil franchise. Resident Evil 6 also saw an expensive collector's edition in Japan but with Leon Kennedy's jacket. That set cost players $1,300, which is slightly more affordable than its Resident Evil Village counterpart. 

While the jacket certainly looks well-made, which equates to a higher price point, it's not exactly the most unique. Leon's jacket was iconic, but this? This is just a grey peacoat. But, as an avid collector myself, who am I to judge? If it makes you happy, you can shoot your shot by nabbing one right here. 

As for the game itself, the PS5-specific demo is available now to enjoy. As for when the whole adventure releases, Resident Evil Village launches on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on May 7, 2021. Thoughts on the pricier collector's edition seen above and what we've seen thus far of Resident Evil Village? Shout out those Chris Redfield stan thoughts in the comment section below! 

            .

Liana Ruppert
Associate Editor 
With an arguably unhealthy obsession with Dragon Age and Mass Effect, Liana is wildly passionate about all things in the gaming community. From shooters, to RPGs, if it's out - she's playing it. She's also likely to die from hoarding gaming collectibles.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil Village

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

May 7, 2021

Purchase
More Info

