
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 09/15/11






The big game of the week that everyone is
playing and writing about is Dead Island, a first person horror
action-adventure video game developed by Techland and published by Deep Silver.
Other members tackle the sometimes controversial topic of what it means to be
a gamer. Finally, there are several projects being heralded by different
members of the community, including a book deal, a charity fund raiser, and a GI
community rally. Read the blogs below for all of the details.
Blog Herding
Stats:Period Reviewed:
September 05-11, 2011Number of User
Blogs: 111Number of User
Bloggers: 68Number of User
Blogs Herded: 14
Community Blogs:
Why
Gamer Elitism Is Bad For The IndustryIs loving video games enough to define you as a gamer and
does the number of games you have or achievements you've been awarded somehow
make you a better gamer? These are the issues jimmy2tymez tackles in his blog
on gamer elitism.
Book
Project Phase II: Author Nominations (Make Them)Shawn Gordon is championing an effort to publish a book
encompassing the works of the Game Informer community. After receiving a ton of
interest in the idea, he's now prepared for the author nomination phase.
Assassin's
Creed Revelations Multiplayer Beta ImpressionsMatt-boy provides feedback on his experience playing the
AC: Revelation multiplayer beta, complete with a short and long version
depending on how much information you want revealed.
Surviving
The Dead Island Of Banoi: A Photo EssayDead Island is receiving a ton of attention and Shootist2600
takes an interesting approach with delivering his thoughts on the game by including
a series of photos to capture all of the action.
The
First Annual GI BroTrip: The Biggest Event Ever!Many of us have made some good online friends during our
stay at Game Informer, but a few members are taking it to the next level by
meeting in person in what is being labeled the first ever GI Bro Trip – coming
up in October. For more details, read the forum post here.
When
Fox News Attacks: SimCity SocietiesFox News ran a story about how video games are going
green and promoting environmental awareness. GI community member stormfront
takes somewhat of a satirical approach to analyzing each of the transcript's
data points.
Advice
From A Former Fan To Call Of DutyWith one of the largest audiences in the history of
gaming, will gamers ever grow tired of Call of Duty? FamilyGuyGuy7 takes a
humorous angle with a few ideas he'd like to see incorporated into the game to
keep him a fan.
The
Low Budget Guide To Buying Video GamesHas the current state of the economy affected your video
game purchases? If so, check out TOGNick's blog for some budget savvy tips to
make sure you get the most bang for your buck.
Can
Gameplay And Story Truly Co-Exist?Responding to remarks made by David Jaffe at PAX Prime about
games being games and not movies, indiejones comments with a persuasive blog on
his perspective of the topic. 
My
Time At Call Of Duty XP: Picture And Video Wrap-Up!If you didn't get a chance to attend the Call of Duty XP
event in Los Angeles, CA, then check out this blog by eyros2k, complete with
pics and a video of the event. Stand by to be jealous.
GIO
Community Update: Week Of 9/4Don't have the time or desire to sit down and read
through all of the user blogs posted at Game Informer, then perhaps you'll be
interested in the clever approach used by BlackHeartedWolf. He's created short
video clips of him reviewing some noteworthy blogs.
Game
Informer Reader Recap: GIO Community Edition #4Derreck returns with another episode of the GI Reader
Recap featuring fellow members stayedstar, blaze6106, and A Dark Knight as they
discuss the question of the month, "What is your favorite video game power-up
and why?" When you finish Part 1, check out Part 2 here.
The
Importance Of Home Base (In Both Games And Real Life)Oni no Tenshi returns with a compelling blog about the
importance of the home base. The fact that the blog was inspired by real world
events makes it even more special.
My
Biggest Issue With The Gaming CommunityOften known for discussing controversial issues, Demon
Ragnarok vents a little on recent trends in gaming culture including what
defines a video game and gamer.
Review Of The Week:
El
Shaddai: Ascension Of The Metatron (PS3)EL Shaddai sounds like a
brilliant and beautiful game but does that mean it's worth playing? Read Samurai
Zero's review to see why he thought so and awarded the game a 9.00 – the same
score that Game Informer's Andrew Reiner and Phil Kollar gave it.
 Community Podcasts:
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 4In the latest episode, indiejones and mojomonkey12 return
to discuss various items from the community and industry, including the quest to
get indiejones a spot on the next season of The Tester, the "R" word
controversy, and hints of a charitable fundraiser in the works with the
potential for a really cool prize.
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: Episode 47This week, Wes talks about the Sharkoon gaming headset,
Dean talks about Mad Men and the Rezurrection DLC for Call of Duty: Black Ops,
and Titus talks about getting back to gaming.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and
community events to my personal Game Informer account located here to
ensure this feature continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community for the
week of September 05-11, 2011:Anticitizen-One, Apozem, Austin, Belske83, BlackHeartedWolf
(9), born4this, Bryce, Ceron Koch, Cody Gilley, Cru Hunter, D. Robinson,
DeadManWalking, Delancey, The Not So Feared One, Demon Ragnarok (2), Derreck
(3), derth44, DoctorNight, Drym Shyuan (5), Dstubbs (2), Dustin G (2), Elisha
Muir, Enigma, eyros2k, FilyGuyGuy7, firedude3663, Forsberg, freak24 (3),
Gamebeast23456, indiejones (3), Jack, The Quixotic Gamer (4), jimmy2tymez,
Joshua Weibel (3), KAGEHOSHI- (2), kebebasan, Lancehead, Mafia Merc Mike, Marineboy19,
Matt-boy, Max a young true gamer, Meta77, Mr Colossus, Mray901, Nathan Honaker,
Oni no Tenshi (4), Raizan, redlitez76, reidloS doG, Robert, Romars202129, Sean,
ShadowDragyn, Shawn Gordon (2), shooterboy23, Shootist2600, stayedstar,
Still_Insane22, stormfront (2), thatfoxguy, The Game Store Guy (3), The Illest
Villan, The87thNemesis, Titus212, TOGNick, TurdFurgy, Vurtax (2), wayoverdue
(4), xl9, yoshistrike64, and of course yours truly...Saint.
Video Game Quote of the Week:"Make yourself comfortable, hacker. Stay a
while." – Shodan, System Shock

