
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 09/01/11






It's finally here. Blog Herding makes its triumphant return
today. If you're not familiar with this normally regular feature of Game
Informer, Blog Herding is a weekly series that presents a consolidated list of entertaining
community and staff blogs worthy of your attention. 
With the departure of Annette Gonzalez, former Game Informer
Associate Editor, legendary video game rock star, and long time Blog Herding
caretaker, a certain void developed. Blog Herding fell by the wayside,
diminishing the blogging community's hope for glory and riches – or at least a
chance of tapping into a broader audience.
But as witnessed by today's post, the series is being
revived and published by me on what I imagine to be a trial basis. Long time
friends, fans, and fellow gamers should know the prosperity of the Game
Informer community has always been my highest priority and that will continue
to be my goal while I tackle the challenge of succeeding Miss Gonzalez. With
the collective assistance of the community through recommendations, feedback,
and nominations, we can restore Blog Herding back to its rightful place on the
front page of Game Informer.
Some of you might be a little surprised to see a front page
news post by a regular member of the GIO community, and while I am equally
surprised to see it myself, the truth is it's really more of a magician's
sleight of hand trick – a ghost account that I can submit specific content for
the staff to post with my name on it. I am not an official staff member or paid
employee of Game Informer with unbridled access to the front page, and my
regular daily blogs will not be given access to this prime piece of real
estate. This ghost account will be reserved solely for Blog Herding and is only
accessible by the staff, so all of your feedback and input (or hate mail)
should be submitted to my regular GI user account
to ensure it's received and reviewed.
Blog Herding Stats:
Period Reviewed: August 22-28, 2011
Number of User Blogs: 78
Number of User Blogs Herded: 14
Number of User Bloggers: 51
Community Blogs:
Perfecting
The JRPG - MusiciDreamRunner blogs about how to revive video games,
specifically the JRPG genre, and kicks off the discussion with a focus on the
music component of games.
Tips
To Deal With Cyberbullies - The Parent's Guide To Video GamesStepping away from the traditional review blogs, The Game
Store Guy provides some proven tips and resources to deal with those annoying
cyberbullies that can frustrate us to the point of rage quitting.
The
Best Game DealsWith video game consumers having so many options for where
they purchase their games, NoMercy85 provides an interesting look at how to
ensure you get the best deal.
Greatest
Voice Actors In Gaming"Making the look
for a great and iconic character in gaming is one thing, but it is the voice
that can truly bring characters to life." Craigaleg compiles a list of some of
the best voice actor performances from our beloved video games. 
Lighten
Up! Why Are Depressing Games So Popular?One of Game Informer's regular and frequent bloggers, Oni
no Tenshi thinks that as video games have become more graphically developed, they've
also become more depressing. Read her
thoughts and join in on the discussion.
On
The Record With Eyros2k: Series IntroductionOur resident Frag Fest chairman eyros2k has developed a
strategy to discuss hot topics and industry news between the blogging and forum
communities while giving commenters the opportunity to take a stand and support
their opinions.
The
Classic And The Renowned: KOTOR vs. Mass EffectTwo iconic games developed by one great developer, Elisha
Muir decides which one will survive a head to head comparison and be crowned
the victor. Read the blog to find out who wins.
Our
Real Life vs. Our Virtual LifeAnticitizen-One discusses socialization and how the lines
are blurred between our real life responsibilities and our virtual life
necessities. Kind of an ironic piece coming from someone named Anticitizen-One,
but still an enjoyable read.
Critical
Gaming: Educating With Video Games"Like literature and film, it is my firm opinion that
video games could be used as a tool to promote and improve critical thinking in
students." Samurai Zero discusses the merits of using video games to promote
educational interest.
Fallout
3 Is Ruining RPGs For Me"Bethesda created
a world so believable and livable that I have completely been spoiled on what a
proper RPG should be." Like many others, TOGNick has been captivated by the
brutal and gritty world of Fallout 3 and captures his thoughts in this blog.
Deus
Ex: Human Revolution - First ImpressionsScott provides first look impressions of the newly
released Deus Ex: Human Revolution, culminating with the claim that the game
can "easily be categorized as a candidate for Game of the Year." I think it's
safe to say Scott likes the game.
Critiquing
Is Not FlamingWhen does critiquing and providing feedback cross over
into flaming? BlackHeartedWolf tiptoes the fine line between the two and
provides his thoughts on why an honest critique should be welcomed. Enter at
your own risk.
JRPG
- The Immortal GenreJay the Gamer provides an interesting and unique look at
how our beloved first-person shooters don't age very well, while some of the
classic JRPG titles withstand the sands of time. A refreshing and entertaining
piece.
Do
Game Developers Work Too Much? Investigating The Industry's Labor IssuesMost gamers probably think working in the industry would
be a dream job. However, many developers continue to have employees complain of
harsh working conditions. In this blog, indiejones investigates some of the
more prominent allegations that have cropped up in recent years.
Community Events:
Nothing on the RADAR, but stay tuned.
Community Podcasts:
Robot
in the Corner Podcast: Episode 45 (Nearing 1K Subscribers!)By Born4this
The
4th Floor Episode 19: Johnny Unite UsBy TOGNick
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 2: Straight Up Or On The Rocks?By indiejones
I truly hope the community has enjoyed my first submission
into the Blog Herding fray, and while I could certainly never replace the
charming and talented Annette Gonzalez, I do have a new found respect and
appreciation for the effort she put into this feature.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly
neighborhood blogging community for the week of August 22-28, 2011: Anticitizen-One
(2), Apozem, Augustus Cole, BlackHeartedWolf (3), blaze6106, born4this, Cameron
Koch (2), cmanwitaplan, Craigaleg, Darth Kill, Delancey, The Not So Feared One,
Demon Ragnarok (2), derth44, Elisha Muir, Enigma (2), Evil Deej, eyros2k,
freezeimacop690, God Of Irony, gtrcrgy (2), iDreamRunner, indiejones (2),
insectopod, Jay the Gamer, JBBs, jimmy2tymez, Joshua Weibel (3), J-Pow, Kurt
Thomas, Logan Hess, Magnus the Historian, Max a young true gamer, Meta77,
NoMercy85, Oni no Tenshi (4), redlitez76 (3), Romars202129, Samurai Zero,
Scott, shooterboy23 (2), SilentSnake2011 (5), Spyro Conspiracy Theorist,
thatfoxguy, The Game Store Guy (4), The_Fuzzy_Muffin_Man (2), thegodofwine7,
TOGNick (3), Tren Frost, wayoverdue (4), and of course, yours truly...Saint.              
Video Game Quote of the
Week:
"I'll relinquish one bullet. Where do you want it?" – Commander Shepard

