
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 09/29/11






If you were concerned that the release of Gears of War 3 was going to impact
the level of activity from the blogging community, worry no longer. This week's
edition of Blog Herding marks the most activity and biggest selection of blogs
since the series returned. Check out this week's collection of blogs from your
fellow friends and gamers.
Blog
Herding Stats:
Period Reviewed: September 19-25, 2011
Number of User Blogs: 114
Number of User Bloggers: 70
Number of User Blogs Herded:  17
Upcoming
Events:
Need
A Good Karma Boost? Help Some Sick Kids And All Will Be Forgiven
On October 15th, Extra Life is holding their annual 24 hour gaming marathon to
benefit the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. Mojomonkey12 is championing
the effort and has taken the lead with establishing TEAM GIO. If you're
interested, read the blog and sign up.
Community
Blogs:
Freedom
Fighters 2, Where Art Thou?
In an age where most games, regardless of success, seem to breed a sequel,
Cameron Koch reminisces over the original Freedom Fighters while brooding over
where the sequel is.
Reviewing
Expectations: A Community Blog
Inspired by the backlash from Dan Ryckert's review of Resistance 3, Demon
Ragnarok gathers up some members from the community to ask them their thoughts
on the process of reviewing video games.
DRM,
DLC, Lawsuit Waivers, Crap Hardware, And Other Insanity
Veteran gamer and community member Marco Polo states, "I can't remember a
more promising, or more frustrating time in gaming as right now." Read his
blog and see why he thinks so.
10
Years Of Game Informer
How long have you been reading Game Informer? Community Member Forsberg
provides us a short and sweet blog about his GI magazine collection of 120
issues spanning the last decade.
Setting
The Stage For The Next Generation Of Gamers
As a gamer and parent, mojomonkey12 chats about the importance of promoting
responsible video game behavior to the next generation of gamers with a series
of tips and recommendations. 
German
Gaming: The European Difference
Certain pockets of the world cater to gaming more than others. This short but
informative blog by Elias provides a snapshot of gaming in Europe, including
costs and availability.
The
Quest For Perfection
Continuing the debate on whether video games should ever receive a perfect
score, The Fox analyzes a number of games that received perfect marks from Game
Informer to see if he agrees.
I
Am Not A Gamer
In the past few weeks, various community bloggers have deliberated on what it
means to be a gamer and whether elitism exists in the industry. DeadManWalking
counters with the claim that he's not a gamer; or at least not just a gamer.
The
Dragyn's Lair: All I Want For Christmas Is Diablo 3 For PS3
In response to the closed beta launch for Diablo III, diehard Blizzard fanboy,
ShadowDragyn, voices his concern over whether the game will be available on
consoles and that he's not a part of the beta.
PC
Gamers Are Elitist Pigs
One of Game Informer's most prolific community bloggers returns from an
extended absence making the outrageous claim that PC gamers are elitists. Don't
miss out on Euphoric Ennui's snarky yet artful commentary.
My
Top Ten Most Anticipated PS Vita Games
Sony's new handheld gaming device isn't due to release until sometime next
year, but that can't stop The87thNemesis from blogging about the PS Vita games
he's most excited for. 
Smiling
Through The Pain
Many gamers share a mutual response to Dead Island - a really fun gaming
experience, but a really frustrating gaming experience. Read Shootist2600's
blog to see why he felt this way.
What
Can Valve Do With Half-Life 3?
With rumors circulating that a hint of Half Life 3 was leaked, Lancehead seizes
the moment to talk about what the next installment in the Half-Life series
might look like.
Gaming
For A Cure
Need further proof that gaming is good for you and gamers will save the world?
Jack, The Quixotic Gamer discusses how gamers contributed to a medical
breakthrough searching for a cure for AIDS.
POKÉMONth
Post: Starting Out With Special Partners
Everybody remembers their first - their first Pokémon that is. Oni no Tenshi
talks about the quintessential part of EVERY Pokémon game - the Starter
Pokémon.
How
Bulletstorm Brought Me Back To Gaming
While scanning the shelves of his local Game Stop, Dustin G took a chance on
Bulletstorm, a game he knew nothing about. Read his blog to see how this
selection process worked out for him.
GI
Brotrip 2011. Where You Can Win Your Very Own Brand New Car
More details are emerging about the upcoming gathering of gamers from the Game
Informer Community. SMACKEY provides some follow-up information about the first
ever GI Brotrip 2011, while hinting at prizes - including your very own
(Hotwheels) car.
Review
Of The Week:
An
End To All Average Things
Gears of War 3 was the big release for the week, and several members of the
community posted their reviews, including this one by Matt-boy, who awarded the
game an 8.50. Game Informer associate editor Adam Biessener rated the game a
9.50.
Community
Podcasts, Vlogs, and More: 
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 6
The hosts of the show discuss Dead Island, Gears of War 3, and Jetpack Joyride,
as well as the charity event sponsored by Extra Life that is being coordinated
by mojomonkey12. Also, this episode marks the return of the "Burns and
Butters" segment. Tune in and check it out.
Gameinformer
Online Radio - Episode 26
Mray901 and the gang chat about Back to the Future: The Game being free on PSN,
Dead Island, the Tokyo Game Show, and Disney character pick-up lines. Who could
ask for more?
The
4th Floor Episode 21: True Freedom
Despite his departure from blogging at Game Informer to pursue other writing
interests, TOGNick stops by to drop off another episode of the 4th Floor, a
podcast devoted to various industry topics.
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: Episode 2-2
Titus, Wes, and Dean talk about Lego Rock Band, DC Comics' The New 52,
and a restaurant called Zombie Burger. Also, their pick for the Netflix Instant
Queue Movie Review this week is The Thing.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and community events in
to my personal Game Informer account located here to ensure this feature
continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community for the week of September
19-25, 2011:
A Dark Knight, Apozem, Ben the Stud, BlackHeartedWolf (8), blaze6106,
born4this, bungtoad magee, Craigaleg, DeadManWalking, Demon Ragnarok, derth44,
dethmatic, Di5a5terp13ce, Drym Shyuan, dude the hedgehog, Dustin G (2), Elias,
Emily, EuphoricEnnui (2), Evil Deej, Forsberg, freak24 (2), freezeimacop690,
Fry0127, GAMERISAY, GTA mushroom kingdom, indiejones, Jack, The Quixotic Gamer
(6), Joshua Weibel, KAGEHOSHI-, kingofsheep42, Lancehead (2), LEVON (2), Livia
, Mafia Merc Mike, Marco Polo, Max a young true gamer (4), mojomonkey12 (2),
Mray901, Ninja Rhino, Oni no Tenshi (4), Porkchopington, Rabbid Dungeon Boy
(2), RadiantChaos, redlitez76 (2), Robert (3), Romars202129, Samurai Zero,
ShadowDragyn, Shawn Gordon, Shootist2600, sk8terguy97 (2), SMACKEY,
Still_Insane22, superpretendoboy89, thatfoxguy, The Fox (3), The Game Store Guy
(4), the guy who is meh, The Stranger In Us All, The87thNemesis, thegodofwine7,
Titus212, TOGNick, Tony DAurio, Wallrunner, Warbuff, wayoverdue (3),
yoshistrike64 (4), and of course yours truly...Saint.
Video
Game Quote of the Week:
"Overconfidence is the greatest enemy!" - Yoshimitsu, Soul
Calibur 2

