
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 09/22/11






The Game Informer blogging community says goodbye to a
few of its prominent bloggers while the remainder of the community tackles
challenging issues from the video game industry. Check out this week's diverse
collection of blogs and podcasts for your entertainment.
Blog Herding
Stats:Period Reviewed:
September 12-18, 2011Number of User
Blogs: 112Number of User
Bloggers:  58Number of User
Blogs Herded: 13
Community Blogs:
6
Things I Hate About Mass EffectIt's not very often you hear the words hate and Mass Effect used together, but in this
blog, Apozem discusses a few features he doesn't like about the game he
loves so much.
Second
Hand CitizensShawn Gordon debates the merits of buying video games new
or used, and how those that choose to buy used are treated differently than
those who buy new. Enter the discussion at your own risk.
Thief
II: The Metal Age ReviewRemembering a classic, Lancehead provides an exceptional
review of a game many of you have probably never played or even heard of,
but those who have will always remember.
Top
Ten Cannon Fodder EnemiesWhether you're a fan of lists or not, chances are you
haven't seen one quite like this. In this blog, thegodofwine7 provides a
humorous listing of bad guys we've had the pleasure of doing battle with.
The
Importance Of RemakesWhen video game publishers remake and re-release video
games, it promotes the legacy of the game while providing a new audience with
the opportunity to play a classic. Read blaze6106's thoughts on this practice.
9/11
And Video GamesThe ten year anniversary of 9/11 just passed and in this
blog, Bryan M. Stafford recalls the fallout of that fateful day and how the
video game industry could be inspired by the events.
This
Will Never End Because I Want MoreThe debate about video game sequels is certainly not a
new one, but in this thought-provoking piece by Ed_B44, the topic is approached
from somewhat of a different angle – quit being so greedy.
Gaming
And The Lens Of The TelevisionYet another philosophical blog from Oni no Tenshi – this
time around she confronts the issue of video game stereotypes and how we as
gamers are often portrayed in television.
Band
Of Bloggers #6In this series, volunteer bloggers from the GI community
accept a topic and then post their thoughts on it. TOGNick addresses the
question of, "Has the economy affected how much you spend on games?"
There
Is No "I" In "Team" (But There Ain't No "We"
Either...)ShadowDragyn voices his concern over the lack of teamwork
in modern era video games while tackling the difficult question of how to make
it better, including incentive-based solutions.
Getting
Better From HereAs a student of video game design, o_JMan240_o writes
about his belief that, "we're on the precipice of a drastic change in how the
industry as a whole will be asked to look at advancement within our medium."
Join the conversation on what the future of gaming might look like.
I
Am Who I Am Because Of GamesWith all of the trials and tribulations of the real
world, can video games be an outlet that provides us an opportunity to express and
experience various emotions? In this blog, Matt-boy highlights the best
qualities that video games can instill in us.
Quick-Time
Events, Go AwayA number of games have begun implementing Quick Time
Events (QTE) – the process of following on-screen prompts and performing the
indicated action. Jack, The Quixotic Gamer discusses how QTE disrupts gameplay
while providing some examples of games that implement it better than others.
Review Of The Week:
Resistance
3 - Lack Of Innovation Doesn't Mean It's BadIt's only been on the street
for a few weeks, but a handful of gamers in the GI community have already
posted their reviews for Resistance 3.
In this short but thorough review, goatr discusses why he awarded the game an 8.50
compared to GI associate editor Dan Ryckert, who gave it a 7.00.
Community Podcasts, Vlogs, and More:
The
Armchair Gamer Episode OneAnother GI blogger jumps into
the podcast fray as Gamebeast23456 delivers the first episode of The Armchair
Gamer. He's looking for help, so if you've been interested in podcasting,
here's your chance.
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 5...And Elisha!In the latest episode, the hosts welcome GI community member
Elisha Muir as they discuss video game difficulty and Resistance 3, including Dan Rykert's review of the game and the audience
reaction.
GI
Community Update - Week Of 9/11If you're not familiar with this series, it's a couple of
short video clips narrated by BlackHeartedWolf as he shares his thoughts on
noteworthy blogs posted during the week. Now releasing on Tuesdays.
Gameinformer
Online Radio - Episode 25Mray901 and the crew return with another episode of Game
Informer Online Radio. In this episode they talk about "everything and
anything" including the Back to the
Future movie.
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: One Year AnniversaryThis week the team takes a moment to remember 9/11/01,
talk about Rock Band 3, share their
picks for the top 10 action movies of all time, and reminisce about the first
year of the show.
The
4th Floor Episode 20: One Major ScoreHurricane Irene might've disrupted their schedule, but the
most unruly podcast on GI is back as the hosts of The 4th Floor talk
about all sorts of topics including movies, music, and video games.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and
community events in to my personal Game Informer account located here to
ensure this feature continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community for the
week of September 12-18, 2011:alex720,
Anticitizen-One (2), Apozem (3), BlackHeartedWolf (9), blaze6106, Boo,
born4this, Brad Tramel, Bryan M. Stafford, Cody Gilley (2), Craigaleg, Cru
Hunter, Daniel, DeadManWalking, Delancey (2), Diptardo, Downloadmovies, Ed_B44
(2), Elisha Muir, Enigma (4), Eugene Pete Strowbridge, FamilyGuyGuy7,
freezeimacop690, Fry0127, Gamebeast23456, greyfox7zero, indiejones (2), Jack, The
Quixotic Gamer (4), JBBs (2), Joshua Weibel (4), Lancehead, Lost In Translation
(2), Mafia Merc Mike, Matt-boy, Meta77, Mray901, Nick, o_JMan240_o, Oni no
Tenshi (4), Raizan, redlitez76 (2), reidloS doG, Robert (4), Romars202129,
SaoSauce, ShadowDragyn, Shawn Gordon (3), Still_Insane22,
thatfoxguy, The Game Store Guy (6), The journey man, The87thNemesis (4),
thegodofwine7, TOGNick (4), TurdFurgy, wayoverdue (2), yoshistrike64 (3), and of
course yours truly...Saint.
Video Game Quote of the Week:"Hinky? You act as if you've never seen a
German U-boat in the middle of the jungle before. " – Nathan Drake, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune

