
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 10/27/11






Despite the spam attack plaguing the Game Informer
website, the blogging community presses on and continues posting high caliber
blogs for your viewing pleasure. This was also one of the biggest weeks of 2011
for the video game industry with the release of the critically acclaimed Arkham
City and the highly anticipated Battlefield 3.
Blog Herding
Stats:
Period Reviewed:
October 17 – October 23, 2011Number of User
Blogs: 156Number of User
Bloggers: 80Number of User
Blogs Herded: 9
Upcoming Events:
FragFest
Fall 2011 Event Schedule – Events 2 And 3The release of Battlefield 3 is upon us and eyros2k is
celebrating the event by hosting Frag Fest 9 this weekend. Check his latest
blog for all of the details and join your fellow GI members online.
Community Blogs:
The
Morality Of The Assassin OrderDiscussing morality among
assassins might seem a bit ironic, but this philosophical piece by Knapptime
explores the fundamentals of the Assassin's Creed.
The
Ten Commandments Of GamingThou shalt read this brilliant
and witty blog by 3D Titan offering some practical guidelines on how to be a
righteous and upright gamer. Thou shalt do it now, so sayeth the Saint.
Five Franchises That Are Moving Gaming Into The FutureIn a crowded market of video
game development, innovation is a commodity. Read this fantastic blog by ShadowDragyn
to see which titles are leading the way in development and setting the future
standard.
Revisiting
An Epic AdventureWith the recent release of The
Ico and Shadow of the Colossus Collection by Sony, Samurai Zero shares his
personal experiences with playing the epic adventure that is Shadow of the
Colossus.
Playing
For KeepsAn eloquently written blog by
Shootist2600 that touches on the sensitive issue of successful studios
developing premier titles, only to rush production and deliver shoddy or
otherwise incomplete products.
Top
Ten In-Game WarsKnown for his uncanny ability
to create remarkable "top ten" lists, thegodofwine7 returns this week with a
look at the ultimate conflicts and conquests found in the history books of our
favorite games.
The
Merits Of GIO User ReviewsEuphoricEnnui, in his typical
snarky style, sets his crosshairs on the Game Informer user reviews and
challenges those who "call themselves reviewers." Amidst all the satire, there
is a valid point.
Why
First Person Perspective?There's no denying the magnitude
of the First-Person Shooter (FPS) audience. Jack, The Quixotic Gamer wonders
why, and then responds on paper with a few plausible explanations.
A
Look Back At Gaming 2011 Part 1As the end of the year gets
closer, it's inevitable the community will start looking back over the past
year to decide Game of the Year contenders. In this first part, Craigaleg
provides a list of games released between January and April.
Notable Reviews:
The
Batman Game We've All Been Waiting ForArkham City is tearing up the
charts with perfect to near perfect marks from everyone who has played it,
including Masterassassin, who matched Game Informer's perfect score and awarded
the game a 10.
Classics
With Classic ProblemsOne post for two great games, o_JMan240_o
reviews The Ico and Shadow of the Colossus Collection and provides his thoughts
on each before finally awarding the game an overall score of 9.25.
Deus
Ex: Human Revolution ReviewAn extremely detailed and
thorough review of Square Enix's latest title, Lancehead255 sets the standard
for what a quality review should look like. He awards the game a final score of
8.0 out of 10.
Community Podcasts, Vlogs, and More:
The
Armchair Gamer Podcast Episode FiveIn the latest episode of AGP, Light
Gamebeast23456 discusses Batman: Arkham City, what DC heroes should get a video
game makeover, and David Cage's (Heavy Rain developer) attitude towards games.
The
4th Floor Episode 24More music, movies, and video
game mayhem, TOGNick interviews MC Lars, talks about the Extra Life charity
event fundraiser, and shares his thoughts on the movie of the week, Session 9.
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 10In what is being self-described
as the raunchiest episode yet, Jeremy and Daniel discuss Arkham City, the Extra
Life charity event fundraiser, and of course what burns and butters their
biscuits.
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: Episode 2-6The RITC hosts chat about
their most anticipated games releasing this fall, the new science-fiction
horror film, The Thing, and the
Netflix Instant Queue Movie Review, King
Kong.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and
community events in to my personal Game Informer account located here to
ensure this feature continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community (October
17 - 23, 2011):3D Titan (2),
Allen, Altair Ibn-La'Ahad, Apozem (2), benderstrike64 (3), BlackHeartedWolf
(3), blaze6106 (8), born4this (3), brainraider1 (3), Craigaleg, Darth Kill,
DeadManWalking (7), Derreck, dragonryder (2), Drym Shyuan (2), dude the
hedgehog, Dustin G, Enigma (2), Erin McDaniel, EuphoricEnnui (2), fps gnome, Forever_Feral, FrankxthexBunny, Gordon Freeman, Harbinger
journey man, Hist, Icefire13, indiejones (2), Jack, The Quixotic Gamer (3),
jacktheglueman (3), JBBs, Jellosnake, John Jones, Joshua Weibel, Knapptime (5),
Lancehead255, Laws1, LEVON, libertydude (2), Light Gamebeast23456, Mafia Merc
Mike, Matt-boy, Matthew Fugere, Max the young true gamer (2), mojomonkey12 (2),
Nick, o_JMan240_o (3), Oni no Tenshi, Ownzoir, R christensen, RatchetGuy,
reidloS doG, Robo LoCicero (4), Romars202129 (2), Sabrina Brixton, Samurai
Zero, ShadowDragyn (2), Shootist2600 (2), Silvershine08 (4), sk8terguy97 (3),
Special Agent eyros2k, stayedstar, Steve Patriot, System of a Down, The Game
Store Guy (4), The Legendary Ewok King, The Midnight Mayor, the mods (2), The
Most Interesting Fox in the World (4), The Stranger In Us All, thegodofwine7
(2), TheLastTactician (2), Titus212, TOGNick (2), Tony DAurio, Torimidori,
triforcekeyblade, wayoverdue (4), xXBourne07Xx (6), and of course yours
truly...Saint.
* Due to the
significant number of spam blogs, I regret any names inadvertently left off of
the list *
Video Game Quote of the Week:"Well, kiddies, it's
been more fun than a jump-suit full of weasels." – Dr. Fred, Day of the Tentacle
Editor's Note: This week's Blog Herding was accidentally posted under Jeff Marchiafava's name instead of Saint's ghost account. We have reposted it under Saint's name, but unfortunately this means we also lost the comments for the original post. Sorry about the confusion!

