
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 10/13/11






"It was the best of times, it was the worst of times..." is
a quote from the classic Charles Dickens story, A Tale of Two Cities, but it also describes this week in the video
game industry. Many gamers continue to experience the Battlefield 3 beta; others
are enjoying the recently released Rage. While all this is going on, we
should pause in memory of the passing of Steve Jobs, one of the greatest
pioneers and visionaries the world of technology has ever witnessed.
Blog Herding
Stats:
Period Reviewed:
October 03 - October 09, 2011Number of User
Blogs: 106Number of User
Bloggers: 63Number of User
Blogs Herded: 12
Upcoming Events:
Need
A Good Karma Boost? Help Some Sick Kids And All Will Be ForgivenThe Extra Life 24 hour gaming marathon is nearly upon us.
The next day or two will be your final chance to join TEAM GIO and support a
charitable event aimed at helping sick kids. Contact mojomonkey12
for all of the details.
FragFest
Fall 2011 ScheduleMan your battle stations! The man in charge of Frag Fest
has released the Fall 2011 schedule with all sorts of opportunities to play
online with your fellow GI comrades. Cheers to eyros2k for herding cats and
coordinating these events.
Community Blogs:
Weak
And Flawed: Some Of Video Game's Humbled HeroesShowcasing his first and only blog, Birds are dumb takes
a moment to analyze some of video game's more humble protagonists in this witty
post sure to make you smile.
POKEMONth
Post: Legendary Pokémon - The Ultimate ConquestIf you thought you knew everything there was to know
about Pokémon, did you know there are three kinds of Legendary Pokémon? In her
latest blog, Oni no Tenshi explains them.
To
Die For: Exhibiting RageAn introductory look at the first forty minutes of Rage,
the newest title from Bethesda Softworks, complete with stunning screenshots
demonstrating the legacy we've come to know and expect from id.
The
Necessity Of New Game+New Game+ or Replay Mode is an unlockable video game mode
that allows players to start a new game with certain benefits after they
finish the game at least once. Read Matt-boy's thoughts on why this is a much
needed feature in all games.
Another
"Are Video Games Art" Post - But With A TwistA voice from the past, one of Game Informer's seasoned
bloggers, rekindles the video game art debate with a different approach. Read
Hist's latest work and join in on the discussion.
My
First Few Hours With Dark SoulsFor Game Informer member screamingllama135's first blog,
this inspiring little piece chronicles the first few hours of Dark Souls and should
leave you amused with his experience.
Tales
Of An Ex-Gears Of War HaterSit back and enjoy the saga as fellow gamer John Jones
recounts his journey from hating Gears of War to enlisting in the ranks as a
fellow Gear in Microsoft's latest installment of the GoW series.
Battlefield
3 Beta ReactionsSince its release, reception of the Battlefield 3 beta
has been hit or miss. One of Game Informer's newest bloggers, Reptar7, delivers
his own battle assessment of the action.
The
Matchmaking DilemmaAll of us have suffered from the imbalance of a video
game match-making system. Craigaleg breaks down the commonly used system, the
problems with it, and possible solutions.
Favorite
Not-Quite BossesThere are bosses and there are baddies who aren't quite
at that level but are still impressive adversaries. Read Cru Hunter's blog to
see his list of favorite "not-quite" bosses.
Why
I'm Crazy About Game InformerAnother satisfied Game Informer enthusiast, Ed_B44, raves
about how he learned of the magazine and website and why he is so crazy with
his discovery.
Enticingly
Culpable PracticesA persuasive blog by Jessie
Scott on the practice some video game publishers take to protect their assets
by implementing a "You Can't Sue Me!" clause.
Review Of The Week:
Glutton
For PunishmentThe recently released Dark
Souls was a popular title among the reviewers this week. One of the most
thorough reviews is this one by Craigaleg, who scored the game an 8.25 compared
to GI associate editor Phil Kollar, who awarded it an 8.75.
Community Podcasts, Vlogs, and More:
The
Armchair Gamer Podcast Episode ThreeGI Community Member Gamebeast23456
and his co-hosts talk about an eclectic selection of topics from the video game
industry including Portal 2 DLC and the new iPhone announcement.
Gameinformer
Online Radio - Episode 28Mray901 and the other co-hosts
of the GIOR podcast talk about Dark Souls, Rage, and Spider-Man: Edge of Time. Also,
don't miss the interview with David Hayter, the voice behind Solid Snake.
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 8: PokemaniaJoin indiejones and
mojomonkey12 as they talk about everything from Pokémon to the Battlefield 3
beta. Listen to the show to see who gets a shout out and what about the GI
community irks them.
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: 2-4The RITC team discusses their most
anticipated games releasing this fall, joining Team GIO for the upcoming Extra
Life charity event, and the Netflix instant queue movie of the week, Batman Forever.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and
community events in to my personal Game Informer account located here to
ensure this feature continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community for the
week of October 03 - 09, 2011:Anticitizen-One, Apozem
(2), Birds are dumb, Black Rook, BlackHeartedWolf (2), blaze6106 (6), born4this,
Brad Tramel, brainraider1 (2), Cody Gilley, Craigaleg, Cru Hunter, David, DeadManWalking,
DeathsApprentice,  Derreck, dragonryder
(2), DrJoeystein, Drym Shyuan (2), DStubbs (3), Ed_B44, Elias, eyros2k, freak24
(2), Gamebeast23456 (3), Harbinger (2), Hist (2), Icefire13, indiejones (2),
Jack, The Quixotic Gamer (4), Jessie Scott, John Jones (3), Joshua Weibel, KAGEHOSHI-
, Lancehead (3), Matt-boy, Max the young true gamer, Metagross, MinorThreat99, Mitch,
mojomonkey12, Mray901 (2), o_JMan240_o (2), Omniscient Tyrant Fox, Oni no
Tenshi (3), PaperandPen (3), Phil, redlitez76, Reptar7, screamingllama135, Shootist2600,
Silvershine08, The Fox (2), The Game Store Guy (4), Titus212, TOGNick, Undertaker
Adrian, Vurtax, Wallrunner, wayoverdue (3), xl9, xXBourne07Xx (3), and of
course yours truly...Saint.
Video Game Quote of the Week:"We all make choices, but in the end our
choices make us." - Andrew Ryan, Bioshock

