
  Blog Herding: Community Edition 09/08/11






Last week marked the return of Blog Herding and the
response was overwhelmingly positive – including a comment from the former Blog
Herding master, Miss Annette Gonzalez, who provided her support and
endorsement. This week marks another busy and productive round of community
blogs including perhaps the best blog you didn't read from one of Game
Informer's newest members, ThrawnOmega.
Blog Herding
Stats:Period Reviewed:
August 29 - September 04, 2011Number of User
Blogs: 97Number of User
Bloggers: 62Number of User
Blogs Herded: 12
Community Blogs:
The
Unanswered Questions Of Gears Of WarAt level 3 and debuting his first blog, that, at the time
of this writing barely has a dozen views, ThrawnOmega poises some interesting
questions derived from the Gears of War series of video games and books, while
wondering if they'll be answered in GoW 3, due out later this month.
My
Journey Into PC GamingThink PC gaming is dead? Abertix24 describes the
experience of building a new PC gaming rig including the highs and lows, and
how it is quickly replacing the Xbox 360 as the gaming platform of choice.
How
Game Informer Saved My LifeThe Game Informer community means something different for
each of us. In this blog, indiejones shares his own personal testimony on how
Game Informer changed his life.
Video
Game Novel Review - Bioshock: RaptureWith the increasingly popular trend in video game-inspired fiction, febtober swords provides a compelling review of a book
inspired by one of the most captivating video game environments experienced by
gamers in recent times.
Bump!
Jumping To The PastThis is a monthly blog series organized by BlackHeartedWolf
that focuses on blogs from the past worth a second look by those of us who've
been here awhile, and a first look by members new to the site. Check it out to
see which blogs made the list this time around. Don't stop there – BlackHeartedWolf
has been blogging up a storm, so take a look at some of his other work including
this one
about the GI Writer's Guild.
Gaming
Fulfills Our Basic Need To SucceedSome of us play video games as a way to de-stress, but GWNightmare
explores some of the other factors that cause us to want to play video games,
including the need to succeed.
Click
Click Boom - Limited Interactivity In Video GamesDid you ever stop and wonder why complex interactive
sequences are simulated in video games with a simple click of a button? Bryan
M. Stafford explores the topic and offers his thoughts.
Does
Classic Literature Belong In Video Games?The video game Dante's Inferno by Visceral Games was
received with lukewarm results, partly because it was considered a God of War
knock off, and partly because it strayed too far from its inspirational source,
Divine Comedy. TOGNick questions whether classic literature has a place in
video games.
Custom
GI Avatars: Season2 Episode1TurdFurgy returns with another installment of the always
creative and ever popular Game Informer custom avatar series. See which
characters he's crafted this time around.
Time
Out!Video games that require you to complete objectives
within a certain amount of time often rush you through the event while leaving
little time to actually enjoy the moment. This blog by insectopod discusses the
issue and lists some games notorious for this approach.
EA
And Its Terrible MarketingWhile the war of words between Battlefield 3 and Modern
Warfare 3 is heating up between the developers, Cody Gilley discusses his
dissatisfaction with some of EA's questionable marketing tactics.
Games
That Need To Be Embellished And Expanded Upon By DevelopersMost of our exceptional video games are so great because
of the fascinating characters that breathe life into a compelling story. Cru
Hunter wonders in writing what other potential story lines could be inspired
from the often unexplored universe of a few popular video game titles.
User Review Of The Week:
The
EX Is For sEXyDeus Ex: Human Revolution certainly received a ton of
attention this week and was the inspiration for a number of blogs. Game
Informer community member LaLiLuLeLo posted a glowing review awarding the game
an overall score of 9.5 (Game Informer's Andrew Reiner awarded it an 8.5).
Check it out to see what makes this game so great.
 Community Podcast:
Robot
In The Corner Podcast: Episode 46Titus and Wes talk about Mystery Science Theater 3000 and
Paul (the comedy movie) while Dean is on paternity leave discovering how to
change a diaper while holding a controller. 
Gameinformer
Online Radio - Episode 23 & 24Returning from a brief hiatus, GIO Radio is back with not
one but two episodes. Join Mray901 and the rest of the crew as they discuss the
latest in pop culture and the video game industry.
The
Indie & Mojo Show Episode 3: Croiky Guvnah!The third installment of the Indie and Mojo show has been
posted and apparently resulted in some rather bad British accents to entertain
the crowd as they discuss Portal and even offer some prizes.
Don't forget to send your feedback, recommendations, and
community events in to my personal Game Informer account located here to
ensure this feature continues to provide the content you're eager to read.
Happy Blogging!
Your friendly neighborhood blogging community for the
week of August 22 - September 04, 2011:Abertix24,
Another Name Change, Anticitizen-One (2), Apozem (4), BlackHeartedWolf (7),
blaze6106 (3), Boo, born4this (2), Brad Tramel, Brandon Whiting is back, Bryan
M. Stafford, Chris Mcgrath, Cody Gilley (2), Cru Hunter (2), Delancey, The Not
So Feared One, DJX25968, DoctorNight, Elisha Muir, Enigma, Evil Deej, eyros2k,
febtober swords, Forsberg, freak24 (3), freezeimacop690, gtrcrgy (2),
GWNightmare, Hist, indiejones (3), insectopod, Jack, The Quixotic Gamer (5), John
Jones, Joshua Weibel (4), KAGEHOSHI-, kebebasan, linebacker40, Masterassassin,
Max a young TRUE gamer (2), MisterWarsaw, Mray901 (2), NoMercy85, o_JMan240_o,
Oni no Tenshi, owen, redlitez76, Romars202129, ShadowDragyn, Shawn Gordon (2),
SilentSnake2011, slymd83, thatfoxguy, The Game Store Guy (4), The journey man
(2), ThrawnOmega, TOGNick, TurdFurgy, Vostok, Vurtax, Wayne Strickland,
wayoverdue (6), Zrdtard and of course, yours truly...Saint.
Video Game Quote of the Week:"Well, considering you haven't even committed
the crime we're accusing you of, we'll let you off with a warning." – Sam, Sam and Max: Culture Shock

