
  The Full Mortal Kombat 11 Roster So Far






            The Mortal Kombat 11 reveal event lived up to its name, laying bare a number of new details. The biggest remaining mystery is who's filling out the character roster. NetherRealm has revealed a number of characters, old and new, that will be unleashing a bevy of punches, kicks, and gruesome finishers with. We imagine in the weeks to come we'll find out more as well. We'll update this list with every fighter revealed.

For now, here's who we know will be in Mortal Kombat 11 (and some folks who are probably on the way).

Confirmed Fighters

Frost 

Sub-Zero's heir apparent returns to Mortal Kombat for the first time since as a playable character since Mortal Kombat: Armageddon. The female Lin Kuei warrior is now decked out in a mechanized body, which she plans to use to exact revenge on Sub-Zero. 

The Kollector

Another newcomer to the series, the Kollector is a longtime Shao Kahn ally who uses a number of tools with four arms to maul his opponents.

Cetrion

The Elder God of the elements, Cetrion can bend the Earth to her will. She's one of the few new characters in Mortal Kombat 11, and you can learn more about her all this month in our month of exclusive coverage.

Kung Lao 

The man with the bladed hat is also time-traveling into modern times, ready to get ahead and behead the rest of the cast as the situation demands it.

Liu Kang

The dragon warrior is back  and eager to take down the evil that stands in his way. Maybe past Liu Kang can fare better than the current incarnation.

Jax

The iron-armed special forces fighter makes an appearance in both his original and modern forms.

Shang Tsung

Shang Tsung will be the game's first DLC character. Mortal Kombat 11's Krypt mode takes place on his island.

Noob Saibot

Revealed a bit too early during a Mortal Kombat Panel at Chicago's C2E2 panel, a slide showing Noob Saibot's new look confirms the character will be playable in the full game, and is bringing his dark clone back with him. You can watch him in action here.

Jacqui Briggs

Another of Mortal Kombat X's new fighters returns for Mortal Kombat 11, and she's brought a host of high-tech gadgets with her.

Erron Black

The trickster gunslinger was confirmed by the latest story trailer, and he's got a few new underhanded moves up his sleeve.

Cassie Cage

Surprise! Cassie was sporting a ponytail the entire time! Oh, and she's been confirmed as a playable fighter in the latest trailer. You can read our in-depth impressions of the character here.

Jade

Armed with her bo-staff, the stealth assassin Jade is back as a revenant serving the Netherrealm.

D'Vorah

Who needs D'va when you've got D'Vorah? Mortal Kombat X's insect-like alien is back and freakier than ever. 

Kabal

In a recent livestream, NetherRealm confirmed the return of Mortal Kombat 3's on-again, off-again hero/villain, Kabal.

Kano

NetherRealm also recently confirmed that big muscle-bound jerk Kano. As far as pleasant surprises go, his appearance is neither pleasant nor a surprise. 

Scorpion

Scorpion has been the most recognizable character in the series since its inception. Of course Scorpion's in it.

Raiden

Raiden's here, seemingly still corrupted by Jinsei following the events of Mortal Kombat X.

Sub-Zero

The other popular ninja is also here and it looks like he's got a nice, nasty callback to his infamous spine-pulling fatality from Mortal Kombat II.

Geras

A new addition. We don't know much about him, except he seems to like sand? Well, ok then.

Baraka

Folks were not happy you couldn't play as Baraka in the last installment but have no fear: everybody's favorite...ugh...sword arm ghoul thing is back. Yeah!

Kotal Kahn

The ruler of Outworld is making deals with at least one faction involved with all the time manipulation and was recently confirmed in a trailer as part of the roster.

Sonya Blade

Get ready to break some more necks. Sonya featured prominently in the gameplay trailer.

Kitana

Netherrealm confirmed that the fan-favorite princess was returning to the roster with a trailer.

Johnny Cage

It just wouldn't feel like Mortal Kombat if everyone's favorite egotistical, crotch-punching Hollywood star wasn't back.

Skarlet

Skarlet's back for the first time since Mortal Kombat 9 and unveiled a gruesome fatality centered around her blood magic specialties. 

Shao Kahn

Yep. One of the cheapest, most infuriating bosses of all time is back. This time as a preorder bonus.

Unconfirmed Fighters

NetherRealm has not confirmed these characters as playable fighters. However, they can be seen during trailers in non-gameplay cinematics.  So we're listing them here with appropriate caveats.

Kronika

Kronika shows up as a menacing figure in the game's story and gameplay trailers. She's probably the antagonist and, given the series' history with regard to big baddies, will likely be a playable roster character.

Check back for more roster additions as NetherRealm reveals them. For more on Mortal Kombat 11, read this interview we conducted with series co-creator Ed Boon, and check out our cover hub for more features on the game leading up to launch.

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 11

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

April 23, 2019

Purchase
More Info

