
  April Cover Revealed – Saints Row: The Third






While the original Saints Row felt familiar to fans of the open-world crime genre, its sequel separated itself from the pack with almost cartoonish over-the-top action. Whether you were chainsawing elderly people in half or spraying a pool party down with a poop truck, the franchise was clearly heading in its own direction. Saints Row: The Third takes things a step forward as the most insane installment yet, and it's our April cover.
The cover above will be going out to our subscribers, while the cover below will be available on newsstands.

We'll have ten pages of information about Saints Row: The Third, including all the details on the new city and the shady Syndicate crime ring that controls it. This issue also includes a feature on Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, the ambitious RPG developed by Big Huge Games and Curt Schilling's 38 Studios. Being our April issue, you can also look forward to our annual parody of the industry in Game Infarcer.
Check out page 2 for the official THQ press release regarding Saints Row: The Third, and keep an eye on our hub all month long for more coverage.

Official THQ press release:
STRAP IT ON THIS HOLIDAY WITH SAINTS ROW®: THE THIRDTHQ and Volition Inc. Take Open-World Action Over the Top and Then Some in Next Installment of Vaunted Franchise.AGOURA HILLS, Calif. – March 3, 2011 – THQ Inc. (NASDAQ: THQI) and Volition, Inc. today announced the upcoming release of Saints Row: The Third, the highly-anticipated next installment in the multi-million unit selling Saints Row franchise. Developed by Volition, Inc., Saints Row: The Third is scheduled for release on the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation 3 computer entertainment system, and Windows PC this holiday season. “Saints Row: The Third puts you on top of the world, right at the beginning of the game, with all the perks that go along with being the head of an elite criminal organization,” said Danny Bilson, THQ Executive Vice President, Core Games. “There’s no delivering pizza, no shuttling family members about in a long series of taxi missions. Instead, you take all the power of the Third Street Saints and you take the world by storm.” The first details of Saints Row: The Third will be revealed in the exclusive cover story in Game Informer’s April issue, shipping to subscribers in early March 2011. About Saints Row: The ThirdYears after taking Stilwater for their own, the Third Street Saints have evolved from street gang to household brand name, with Saints sneakers, Saints energy drinks and Johnny Gat bobble head dolls all available at a store near you. The Saints are kings of Stilwater, but their celebrity status has not gone unnoticed. The Syndicate, a legendary criminal fraternity with pawns in play all over the globe, has turned its eye on the Saints and demands tribute. Refusing to kneel to the Syndicate, you take the fight to a new city, playing out the most outlandish gameplay scenarios ever seen. Strap it on.

