
  Finding The Asylum's Biggest Secret: Arkham City's Blueprints






Many gamers spent hours scouring every nook and cranny of Arkham Asylum last year. Whether it was Riddler trophies, interview tapes, or Chronicles of Arkham, the game wasn't short on hidden goodies. However, there was one area that most people never even knew existed...Warden Quincy Sharp's secret room. Inside this area, you can clearly see blueprints that lay out Arkham City. We ask developer Rocksteady how it remained hidden for so long and we provide a video guide on how to find it yourself.
Even if you've played Batman: Arkham Asylum through and through, got 100 percent clearance, and unlocked all of the achievements or trophies, you still probably haven't found Warden Sharp's secret room right off of his office. It's not located on any of the maps. You can't see the weak wall with Batman's detective vision. And you can only blow it up with several applications of explosive foam. We asked Rocksteady Studios lead narrative designer Paul Crocker how the team kept it hidden in the Internet age:
While building Batman: Arkham Asylum, we placed a number of ‘hooks’ into the game that tie into the ‘Arkham-Verse’. From the beginning we knew that Quincy was a bad guy, and planned what his next move would be. The room obviously ties into Arkham City, but to be fair, we hid it pretty well. We did assume that it would be found eventually and after following forum posts for 6 months or so, decided to announce it in the ‘Game of the Year’ podcast. The fans of the game have been amazing and again, reading the forums, we can see how much they value the efforts we have put into creating the background stories for the various characters and it was great to see all the posts and theories about the secret room once it was discovered. What I think people are really going to enjoy is not just how Arkham Asylum led to Arkham City, but also how the story in Arkham City sheds new light on the events you saw in Arkham Asylum.
Go ahead and give Arkham Asylum another spin in your console if you'd like to check it out for yourself. We show you exactly how to find it in the video below.
Sorry, this video is not available

