
  Hideo Kojima Talks About His Favorite Movies






While we were in Tokyo, Japan for our Metal Gear Solid V coverage, we had a chance to talk to Hideo Kojima extensively about his next title. We know he's a man of many hobbies, so we also chatted a bit about one of his favorites: Hollywood movies. While it seems that he has a couple of go-to films, he almost seemed flustered at the concept of picking a handful of favorites out of the thousands of movies he's watched. Read below to learn about his favorites that he was able to spotlight.
You’re a well-known film buff. What kinds of movies do you usually gravitate towards?
It’s mainly the movies that I watched when I was a teenager, so mainly movies from the '70s and a little before that. My favorite movies come from that era.
What are your favorite movies of all time?
By far in my lifetime, my favorite movie is 2001: A Space Odyssey. Number two would be Taxi Driver. After that it’s in no specific order: Predator, The Great Escape, The Road Warrior, Blade Runner, Heaven and Hell from Akira Kurosawa, and Dawn of the Dead.
Are there any Eastern directors that you feel have done a good job of adapting to the Hollywood style?
I love John Woo. I’m getting older, so it’s getting harder to remember names of directors and movies. 
Are you a fan of more serious action movies like Terminator 2, or do you prefer campy ones like Commando?
Maybe more stylish movies; they’re fun.
Anything that surprised or impressed you?
My favorite movie last year was The Impossibles. I really liked Dredd and The Raid: Redemption; the stories are similar but I really like those two. One thing I loved about Dredd was that John Carpenter feel that they had in the movie.

For more on Metal Gear Solid V, Kojima Productions, and the Metal Gear saga, click our link below and visit our hub.

You can also follow our Metal Gear Solid V updates and other stories by following Game Informer on Twitter, Google+, and Facebook. There is also the official Metal Gear Solid Facebook page and Konami on Twitter.

            .

