
                                          The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D
                  				 Review


  The New Best Way To Experience An All-Time Classic




Reviewed on 3DS

Publisher
Nintendo

Developer
Grezzo

Release
June 19, 2011

Rating
Everyone 10+

Zelda games have traditionally aged very well, but if there’s one 
that could use a tune-up, it’s Ocarina of Time. The gameplay holds up 13
 years later, but as one of the first 3D console titles, the visuals 
look rough. With Ocarina of Time 3D, one of the greatest games of all 
time looks and plays better than ever. This is the perfect way to 
introduce it to a new generation of gamers.
Ocarina of Time 3D is a
 faithful recreation of the classic, and its slight tweaks are all 
welcome. My favorite is the implementation of gyroscope controls for 
aiming. It may sound like a gimmick, but aiming your bow, hookshot, or 
slingshot by moving the 3DS feels more natural than any aiming mechanics
 of the Wii remote or Move Controller. It’s extremely responsive, and 
offers quicker and more accurate aiming than the circle pad. Once you’ve
 played the shooting gallery or Phantom Ganon fight this way, you won’t 
want to go back to the traditional method.
Another great change to
 the classic formula is the improved inventory interface. Having all of 
your items accessible on the touchscreen means players can spend more 
time playing and less time organizing their stuff. The original only 
offered three C buttons for items, but the 3DS has four customizable 
item slots, and another button is permanently dedicated to your ocarina.
 Switching shields, tunics, or swords is only a couple taps away, and 
you can also view the overworld and dungeon maps on the bottom screen. 
While it’s nice to see the map blown up in this manner, the live area 
map that shows your location is relegated to a tiny overlay on the top 
screen’s HUD. I would have preferred to see this on the large map in the
 bottom screen, but it isn’t a huge inconvenience.
The improved 
inventory mechanics are especially helpful in the dreaded Water Temple. 
Originally, the iron boots were in the gear section of your menu, 
meaning players had to constantly pause the game whenever they needed to
 equip or unequip them. This time around, players can assign a specific 
button to the iron boots just like any other item in the game. In 
addition, new colored lines make the location and function of the water 
level switches more evident. If you need the water level at a specific 
point, it’s far easier with this minor tweak than it was when nothing 
was marked. The temple is still a beast, but it’s less infuriating than 
it was in 1998.
Longtime Nintendo fans have been frustrated by the
 company’s recent insistence on including super guides, and a version of
 this concept appears in Ocarina 3D in the form of Sheikah stones. These
 stones appear in the Temple of Time and near your home in Kokiri 
Forest, and Link can crawl into them “to receive a vision of the 
future.” These short video clips blatantly show you the solution to a 
puzzle or section of a dungeon. I can’t imagine being so stuck in a 
dungeon that I’d rather hike back to Kokiri Forest than stick around 
until I figured out the solution, but it might be helpful to gamers 
unfamiliar with the series.
One place you won’t find the Sheikah 
stones is in the Master Quest. Unlocked after beating the original game,
 this re-done version was originally released as a pre-order incentive 
for Wind Waker. Dungeons maintain the same room layout, but puzzles are 
completely different and it’s much more difficult. In a new twist on 
Master Quest, the 3DS version also mirrors the entire map, which shakes 
up the experience further. The Master Quest adds to the replay value 
considerably, and Nintendo also includes a gauntlet-style boss challenge
 mode that unlocks after conquering the Master Quest.
Ocarina of 
Time 3D is my new favorite way to play one of my top 10 games of all 
time. Its updated visuals look great in 3D, the touchscreen streamlines 
inventory issues, and aiming with the gyroscope feels like much more 
than a gimmick. Whether you’re a newcomer to the series or a Zelda 
veteran, this game needs to be in your 3DS collection.

9.25

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptMake subtle improvements to the classic while maintaining its original feel
GraphicsThe 3D effect is great, but you’ll want to turn it off when aiming
SoundOcarina’s classic melodies sound as great as ever, but Navi is even more annoying thanks to her repetition of Nintendo’s “You should take a break!” company line
PlayabilityManaging inventory and gear on the touchscreen is a welcome improvement to the original menu system
EntertainmentIt may be over a decade old, but Ocarina of Time still plays wonderfully
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D

Platform:

3DS

Release Date:

June 19, 2011

Purchase
More Info

