
  GI Show – Battlefield V, Blackout, Jump Force






            Game Informer's Ben Hanson, Suriel Vazquez and Matt Bertz get into hands-on impressions from Suriel's time with Battlefield V's single-player campaign. Then, Kyle Hilliard, Andrew Reiner, and Jeff Marchiafava join the show to talk about Call Of Duty Black Ops 4's Blackout, the best multiplayer mode that they don't play together. Then, Suriel returns with Brian Shea to talk Soul Calibur VI and Jump Force. The cast rotates further as Matt Miller and Jeff Cork join to discuss Ubisoft's toys-back-to-life venture Starlink: Battle For Atlas, and the surprisingly solid LEGO DC Super-Villains. Then it's time for some fun community emails, and we round out the show with the conclusion of our Every Game Is Interesting challenge, where four GI editors summarize their investigations into their randomly chosen game with a special celebrity guest.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen to episode 420 on SoundCloud, or download the MP3 by clicking here. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

1:25 - Battlefield V
17:43 - Blackout
44:25 - Soul Calibur VI
53:37 - Jump Force
59:00 - Dark Souls Remastered For Switch
1:01:10 - Starlink: Battle For Atlas
1:11:15 - LEGO DC Super-Villains
1:15:12 - Emails
1:42:00 - Every Game Is Interesting: The Challenge

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

Leo Vader
Video Editor
Leo joined Game Informer's video team in 2017 and hasn't stopped chiming in from the booth since. He regularly produces and chimes in on New Gameplay Today and Replay.

Email
Twitter

