
  June Cover Revealed: Assassin's Creed Revelations






You've heard the rumors; now get the facts. Ezio's final chapter will bring the answers that fans have been waiting four years to uncover.

The June issue of Game Informer is on its way, and Assassin's Creed Revelations will grace the cover. Our exclusive, first look, 12-page cover story reveals extensive details on the franchise's next major installment, due out this November.

You'll learn how each of the franchise's major characters -- Altaïr, Ezio, and Desmond -- play a part in the story, and how you'll control each of the three as playable characters. Uncover a brand new part of the world as Ezio travels abroad for the first time to explore the wonders of Constantinople at the height of the Ottoman Empire. Learn about all the new features that set Revelations apart, from a brand new weapon and tool that changes the way you'll fight and traverse the world, to extensive details on the newly customizable multiplayer game. And what exactly is going on with Desmond after the end of Brotherhood? Of course, we also have a wealth of new screens and art to accompany all the information. We unveil all this and more in our magazine cover story, and we'll have more in-depth information, interviews, and videos about the game's central features here on gameinformer.com throughout the month.

For new updates on Assassin's Creed Revelations all this month, click on the banner below. To start things off right, we've already updated the hub with the first high resolution screenshot from the game, along with three convenient sizes to download and use as desktop wallpapers. Enjoy!

On top of the Assassin's Creed Revelations story, you can look forward to six pages of new details and assets of the gorgeous new platformer, Rayman Origins. We also have our full report on everything we know about the Nintendo HD console, we go behind the scenes with augmented reality gaming, and explore a dedicated feature on how you can go green in your gaming habits. Watch for the June issue of Game Informer to arrive in the next few days.

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

