
  Announcing The New Game Informer Magazine Subscription






            We love gaming magazines, and we're hoping if you're here, you do too. But ours can only survive with support from you. For $19.91 (the year of GI's founding), our new standalone magazine subscription program sends a full year of 10 issues to your doorstep, filled with exclusive cover stories, in-depth interviews with game creators, long-form features and retrospectives, previews of what's coming next in the gaming hobby, reviews of the most compelling games, and more.

In recent months, it's sometimes been difficult to know how to get Game Informer in your mailbox, and for that, we apologize. Requests for an easy, no-frills way to get a print magazine subscription are (by far) the number one request we hear from you, and that's what we're delivering today.

Want to also read while you're out and about? Digital magazine access is also included – on your phone, tablet, PC – however you want to check us out.

In addition, a subscription is the number one way to support everything else we do. Much of our content here on the website is free, including all our game reviews, daily news, videos, event coverage, and more – all with minimal ads.

Even a brief look around the gaming industry right now can be sobering. Hard times, layoffs, cancellations, and closures have impacted thousands of game developers and publishers, as well as other outlets like us that celebrate games. We haven't been immune to that hardship.

SUBSCRIBE FOR LESS THAN $2 AN ISSUE

More than a dozen staff members still work here together to bring you the magazine, website, podcasts, livestreams, and videos we roll out daily. And in the last two years, we've employed over 65 additional paid contributors from 9 countries worldwide. Through that work, we highlight hundreds of games and creators with thoughtful (and, we hope, entertaining) articles and insights. It's not possible without financial support.

I believe there's something special about a real physical magazine in your hands, filled with beautiful layouts arranged and planned each month to celebrate what we all love in the gaming hobby. We're betting big that many of you still feel that same way, even as you also enjoy all the other ways you connect to our content.

Please consider supporting Game Informer with a subscription, and help us ensure there’s a place to discover this work for another 30 years into the future.

Thank you.

Matt Miller
Game Informer
Editor-in-Chief

Like what we do? We need your support.

Get 10 print issues for $19.91

Subscribe now

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

