
  Announcing The Destiny: Rise of Iron Magazine Cover Art Contest






We’ve been blown away in recent years by the support and enthusiasm of the Destiny community as we continue our ongoing coverage of the Destiny franchise. As we roll out our look at Bungie’s next installment, we wanted to find ways to involve the community in exciting ways.
Our new art contest is a small way to thank you for following along with our coverage. 
We’re giving artists a chance to see their creations featured as a Game Informer magazine cover.  Three winning entries, selected by Bungie developers, will be featured exclusively in an online feature here on gameinformer.com. Winning cover art will be prepared with the Game Informer logo treatment, just like we do for each of our magazine covers. 
In addition to acclaim from your fellow guardians, the three winners will receive a framed, poster-sized version of their Game Informer cover, complete with signatures from the Bungie development team behind Rise of Iron. In cooperation with Activision and Bungie, winners also receive a collection of awesome Bungie merchandise, along with a digital copy of Destiny: Rise of Iron on your preferred system. 
While we will feature contest winners on GI.com upon the contest’s completion, we encourage you to share your entries with the Destiny community throughout the month, in whatever way you desire. And while only one prize package will go out to each winning entry, there’s no rule that your art project needs to be the work of a single individual; feel free to to work together. Have fun, and send us the best Rise of Iron-themed art you can dream up.
Winning cover artists will be revealed on September 2nd.
Submission Guidelines
1. Your art piece should relate to Destiny as a franchise, or focus specifically on features, characters, or ideas presented or inspired by Rise of Iron. Judging will be based on relevance to Destiny: Rise of Iron as well as overall artistic merit. 
2. Send your single image attachment via email to ReaderArt@gameinformer.com. All submissions must be received by August 29 at 12:01am Central Time. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.
3. Your email subject line must read as follows, or it will not be considered: Destiny Cover Art Contest
4. Email body text should include the name of the artist or artists who participated in the creation of your entry as you would like to see those names printed online if you win. Your email body text should also include your shipping address and preferred gaming platform for playing Destiny.  
5. Your attached image should not exceed 10 MB in size, and should be formatted in the jpg file format. The dimensions for your art piece should be 3810px x 5000px. 
6. Only one attached image will be considered per email.
7. Contest is open to legal residents of the United States and/or Canada.
8. If any aspect of your artwork is discovered to be copied from another artist’s work, your entry will be disqualified. 

For all our Destiny: Rise of Iron coverage throughout this month, click on the banner below. 

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

