
  August Cover Revealed: Hot 50 2012






E3 gave us the opportunity to peruse hundreds of games from dozens of publishers and developers across the video game industry, and the prognosis is strong. Though E3 2012 only had a few big announcements, many previously known projects impressed with high-intensity gameplay demos, trailers, and theater presentations. 
With our individual category winners already announced, it’s time to take a closer look at all the games that caught our attention at the show in our August issue of Game Informer magazine. We’ve chosen 50 games that speak to the excitement and fun of the show; each represents cool new directions that gaming will be moving in the coming months. 
As part of our Hot 50, you’ll also find six special highlighted games with exclusive info, interviews, assets, and beautiful cover art. We’ll also be doing additional coverage on all six games throughout the month here on gameinformer.com. All six titles are new to the cover of Game Informer and were printed in equal amounts so watch your mailbox to see which one you get!
In alphabetical order, they are:

Castlevania: Lords of Shadow – Mirror of Fate
MercurySteam returns to the Castlevania universe with the franchise’s first entry onto 3DS. The Belmont clan has a powerful legacy, and Mirror of Fate will have players join the family’s fight against Dracula across multiple generations.

Dead Space 3
Isaac Clarke returns to his fight against the necromorphs, this time on the surface of a forbidding ice planet. With a partner at his side, Visceral is betting that games can be equally scary with a friend along for the ride.

God of War Ascension
Witness the early days of Kratos as he once again takes on the worst that Olympus can throw at him. Along the way, dive into the franchise's brand new multiplayer.

Injustice: Gods Among Us
The heroes of the DC universe enter the ring with Mortal Kombat creators NetherRealm Studios. As these iconic characters fight, the team wants to throw out everything you know about fighting games.

Resident Evil 6
With three separate campaigns and up to four-player cooperative play, Capcom is betting big on the next installment of Resident Evil. 

Splinter Cell Blacklist
A new terrorist threat could bring down the United States, and Sam Fisher is the man to stop it. By placing a new focus on mobility and action while simultaneously expanding stealth options, Blacklist hopes to bring together Sam Fisher fans, no matter which game you remember and love.
––––––
Including our dedicated features on each of our six cover stories, we have over 60 pages of detailed previews on the best of this year’s E3 games, including Assassin’s Creed III, The Last of Us, Halo 4, Watch Dogs, and more. You can also get our final verdicts on the three big publishers. How did we score Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony after the dust settled?
All this and more is on its way in the August issue of Game Informer. As always, check back throughout the month to gameinformer.com for additional screenshots, interviews, video features, and more on our six cover story games. Just click on the banner below to visit the Hot 50 hub page.

Watch for the print edition of Game Informer to arrive in your mailbox in the coming days. If you subscribe to Game Informer Digital, the browser edition should go live on the 10th so watch your inbox for information. Last month we introduced our apps for Android and iPad, and we will push those editions as soon as they are ready so download the appropriate app ahead of time to prepare. To subscribe or convert to Game Informer Digital – now available on PC, iOS, and Android – click here. 

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

