
  Details Emerge For Destiny 2: Black Armory






            After the positive reception enjoyed by Destiny 2: Forsaken, Destiny 2 is about to receive its next big batch of content. Season pass owners can expect the launch of Black Armory beginning on December 4, and the content drop has a number of new activities to access and rewards to win.

Black Armory includes content that rolls out beginning next week, but players can expect the focus on this new location to be the main in-game focus through March 4, 2019.

The narrative of the new content focuses on an Exo named Ada-1, who invites you to a lost armory created by three Golden Age families from different cultures (French, Japanese, and Norse). She sends you out to reignite four distinct lost forges, and thereby gain access to forging a number of new weapons, including the return of the heavy machine gun weapon class. Weapons gained from the Black Armory carry new weapon mods, and those can be installed on any Forsaken weapons.

The Lost Forges are a new game mode which can be tackled in a three-person matchmade fireteam, and it appears to be a variation on horde mode. Each of the forges appears to be in a different locale, and during the game mode you are literally acting as the blacksmith to forge your new weapons.

Black Armory is also rolling out with a new raid entitled Scouge of the Past, which is set in the ruins of the Last City (presumably ruined through the events of the Red War in the base Destiny 2 game).

Beyond those details, Black Armory is said to feature new quests, triumphs, and collections to pursue. Check out the graphic below from Bungie to see the breakdown of when different elements will launch throughout the season pass. 

Click on the image to get a closer look at the calendar

In addition, we’ve learned that Black Armory will feature at least five new exotic weapons. Anarchy is a grenade launcher for which the grenades stick to surfaces and chain arc bolts to other mines. Le Monarque is a bow that (on a perfect draw) inflicts damage over time using its pestilence arrows, and if that perfect draw is a precision hit, all enemies in a cloud of void energy receive damage over time. Last but not least, Izanagi’s Burden is a sniper rifle with an unusual perk; hold reload to consume the magazine, and load a round with additional range and damage. Jotun is a new fusion rifle that fits on your hand like an arm blaster, which shoots a fireball slug that sets the ground aflame. In addition, while it wasn't explicitly mentioned, various hints strongly suggest that Black Armory will see the return of The Last Word hand cannon. 

Check out the ViDoc below that released today for more information regarding what is on the way in Black Armory, and throughout the rest of the Season Pass. 

Our TakeBlack Armory represents something of a new approach to content roll-out for the Destiny franchise. Previously, most major new characters and game modes would be delivered as part of a full expansion. Black Armory seems to be positioning itself differently, as just one part of the ongoing season pass for this year of Destiny 2. Time will tell if the new roll-out model will meet with approval from the community, but the game has built up some good will in recent months through the strong release of Forsaken, so I’m hopeful about what comes next.

            .

Matt Miller
Senior Previews Editor
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

