
  Exclusive New Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3 Heroes Revealed






            We recently returned from a trip to Nintendo North American HQ, where we had the opportunity to go hands-on with Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order for the first time. We played with a bunch of the characters (the full roster is well over two dozen names long) but we were especially excited to be introduced to two newly announced heroes who have joined the team as playable characters.

Hawkeye should need little introduction to anyone who has been following along with either Avengers comics over the many decades, or for those more familiar with his Jeremy Renner-portrayed appearance in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Whichever version you recognize, you know that the bow-and-arrow wielding hero brings a versatile array of ranged attacks to the table. That same flexibility defines Hawkeye’s appearance in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3, as he takes out enemies through a variety of precision arrow shots and explosions.

While lesser known in many circles, her dedicated fans will be thrilled to learn that Ms. Marvel (also known as Kamala Khan) has also joined the Ultimate Alliance 3 hero list. She’s had a stint as an Avenger in the comic books, but she’s also headlined her own comic book, and her larger-than-life personality (and powers) have made her a rising star in the Marvel universe. By stretching and enlarging her body parts, her in-game version fills up some significant screen real estate as she bashes the bad guys with oversized fists and feet. 

We’ll take a closer look at both Ms. Marvel and Hawkeye later this month, and also offer some dedicated gameplay impressions. In the meantime, if you want to learn about character leveling and progression, endgame activities, and details on the expansive Infinity trials game mode that we saw during our visit, check out our cover story, which rolls out in our digital issue later today.To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

And to follow along with new Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3 coverage throughout the month, click into the banner below to visit our content hub.

      Products In This Article

Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

July 19, 2019

Purchase
More Info

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

