
  February Cover Revealed: The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim






A new era is dawning in the world of Tamriel, and we've got 14 pages of screens and details straight from Bethesda. The February issue of Game Informer is about to hit subscribers, and you can now see a first look at the new cover image. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is the next huge role-playing game from Bethesda, the makers of Oblivion and Fallout 3. Bethesda was kind enough to walk us though the new game a few weeks ago, and we can't wait to share what we experienced with all of you.
The cover features a first for Game Informer. While this digital version of the image shows off the stark, black styling, the real treat comes in the print version. There you'll see a special ultraviolet coating that accentuates the symbol in the center, giving a striking, 3-dimensional texture to the image. 
What's that on the back cover? The strange language seen there offers the first hints of Skyrim's story, along with a unique tie to the singing in the recent teaser trailer. What does it say? The answer lies in translating the stanzas into English. You can solve the puzzle right now in our feature on Translating the Cover. It's the first installment of our month-long extravaganza of online Skyrim stories, all of which will be found on the game's hub page as they release, linked from the image below.
We hope you enjoy the mysterious cover. And don't worry. The inside of the magazine has over 20 screenshots that show off Skyrim in all its glory, along with a 14-page article on the new gameplay, engine, story and setting for this latest Elder Scrolls epic. Also in this issue, we reveal our top 50 games of 2010, including your reader picks for game of the year. What did we choose? What did you choose? And were they the same?In addition, the February issue includes our first look at Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception, our blowout on the new Mortal Kombat game (including two new characters), and our frightening look at the newest Silent Hill. Also watch for our final review of Dead Space 2.As always, thanks to all of our readers for checking out the magazine and website. Let us know what you think about the new cover in the comments below, and don't forget to try your hand at solving the cover's puzzle game.

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

