
  Getting Ready For Assassin’s Creed III






If you’re anything like us, the announcement of a new Assassin’s Creed setting has sent you spinning into thoughts about the potential excitement provided by that historical period. Assassin’s Creed III is set during the later days of the British colonies in America, and follows the subsequent story of those colonies as they coalesce into a nation. The story of a young Assassin hero named Connor takes center stage, but the momentous events of the period are always playing in the background.

If you want a sneak peek at Assassin’s Creed III, you can certainly wait until additional previews about the game reveal characters and historical events the game will explore. But the real trick to figuring out what’s coming in an Assassin’s Creed game is to know your history. We’ve gathered together a collection of some of the most enjoyable films, TV shows, novels, and non-fiction works of the period that we could find, including some that may have inspired Ubisoft as they created the game. Check these out, and we guarantee you’ll find secrets about some of the things you’ll see in Assassin’s Creed III.

1776
Book (2005)
By David McCullough

One of the most approachable and readable histories of the period, 1776 focuses on the early part of the American Revolution. It offers some fascinating insight into the mindsets and decisions of the people who shaped those events, from King George III and General Howe to George Washington and Nathanael Greene. Multiple editions of the book each offer glimpses at art, diagrams, maps, letters, and other source documentation directly from the period, helping the reader get an immersive picture of the world in which Assassin’s Creed III will take place.

The Last of the Mohicans
Film (1992)
Directed by Michael Mann

When we first saw Connor in action in Assassin’s Creed III, the character drew immediate comparisons to the protagonist of this excellent early '90s drama/romance. Based on the 1826 James Fenimore Cooper novel of the same name, The Last of the Mohicans film tells the tale of a trio of Native American hunters, including an adopted white son in the family, who find themselves inadvertently drawn into the French and Indian War in 1757. Echoing themes on display in Assassin’s Creed III, the movie deals directly with the complex interaction between colonists, the British army, and the Native tribes in the northeastern United States.

My Brother Sam Is Dead
Book (1974)
By James Lincoln Collier and Christopher Collier

If you’re looking for historical fiction of the period that isn’t going to take you a year to read, strongly consider this Newbery Medal winning young adult novel, which offers a striking look at the challenges faced by American colonists as the Revolution began. Specifically, families like the one depicted in the book were torn apart by differing opinions over remaining loyal to the British crown or declaring independence and fighting for the Continental Army. Assassin’s Creed III promises to deal with similarly nuanced shades of gray regarding the conflict between the Americans and British.

John Adams
TV miniseries
Directed by Tom Hooper

Starring Paul Giamatti as the complicated and often misunderstood founding father, John Adams offers a riveting eight-hour epic stretching from the night of the Boston Massacre in 1770 to his death in 1826. For a comprehensive glimpse of the political roots of the Revolution, you’ll find few better sources outside of written histories. In addition, like the vision being concocted for Assassin’s Creed III, the John Adams miniseries presents America’s early leaders as flawed and very human characters.

Benjamin Franklin: An American Life
Book (2003)
By Walter Isaacson

Benjamin Franklin is one of the few confirmed historical figures appearing in Assassin’s Creed III, and for good reason. Franklin was one of the most remarkable, humorous, and thoughtful contributors to the birth of America. Isaacson’s comprehensive biography delivers a potent picture of the inventor, politician, writer, and businessman. If you have a vision of the Founding Fathers as stuffy or hard to understand, this biography can help bring at least one of them down to a level we can all relate with.

Rise to Rebellion: A Novel of the American Revolution
Book (2001)
By Jeff Shaara

If historical non-fiction isn’t your thing, perhaps a fictionalized account of the Revolution is more your style. Shaara’s novel chronicles many of the important moments of the period, albeit from a dramatized angle rather than an eye towards strict authenticity. For a broad and enjoyable jaunt through the events that will be right in the middle of the story of Assassin’s Creed III, Rise to Rebellion should get you up to speed.

The Crossing
Film (2000)
Directed by Robert Harmon

Winner of a Peabody Award for excellence back in 2001, The Crossing stars Jeff Daniels as George Washington. The film is worth a watch because of its focused depictions of one of the most harrowing events of the Revolutionary War. Washington’s crossing of the Delaware and the subsequent Battle of Trenton are such exciting moments in history, it’d be a huge surprise if Assassin’s Creed III doesn’t end up touching on them in some way.

Next up: More movies and books to help you prepare for Assassin's Creed III

The Patriot
Film (2000)
Directed by Roland Emmerich

While The Patriot wouldn’t be our top pick for historical authenticity to the period, the 2000 Mel Gibson vehicle nonetheless delivers gorgeous period-appropriate music by John Williams, lush costuming, and plenty of high-octane battle scenes (including Tomahawk fighting). A deep and complex picture of true American patriotism it may not be, but Emmerich’s movie offers one of the more high-budget theatrical visions of the American Revolution.

Johnny Tremain
Film (1957)
Directed by Robert Stevenson

This classic older film from Walt Disney Productions adapts the identically named children’s novel about an apprentice silversmith who becomes embroiled in the Revolutionary War. The main character meets famous figures like Paul Revere and Samuel Adams. While dated, the film offers a fun choice for digging into the excitement of the period while doubling as a fun film to watch with the family over the weekend.

Tories: Fighting for the King in America’s First Civil War
Book (2010)
By Thomas B. Allen

If you’re an American, it’s easy to get through school with only one perspective on the story of the Revolutionary War. Tories offers a detailed history on a group of people not often talked about from the period – the colonists who wished to remain loyal to the British. Early on, few American colonists were ready to outright declare independence from the crown, and many remained that way throughout the war. Thousands of these loyalists left the country after America was formed. The writers of Assassin’s Creed III have promised that these unique and often forgotten viewpoints will be represented in the game, and this history may offer hints of what to expect.

Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation
Book (2000)
By Joseph J. Ellis

While technically chronicling events that occurred after the setting of Assassin’s Creed III, Founding Brothers paints a picture of several of the relationships that defined the period. From the duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton (spoiler: Burr wins), to the friendship between Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, the book’s unique focus on relationships over individuals makes for a great read. Assassin’s Creed III is using more historical figures in its storytelling than any previous installment; you can bet many of the characters in Founding Brothers will play a role in the tale.

Revolution
Film (1985)
Directed by Hugh Hudson

Should most people watch this universally panned movie starring Al Pacino and Donald Sutherland? No. It’s pretty awful. However, maybe you’re one of those people who enjoys profoundly bad viewing experiences, especially when they star otherwise excellent actors. Revolution casts Pacino as a New York fur trapper who gets pulled into the American Revolution. How bad is it? Well, let’s just say Pacino didn’t star in another film for four years. So why are we recommending it here? We’re not really – we’re just hoping Assassin’s Creed III doesn’t turn out like this dud.

April Morning 
Book (1961)
By Howard Fast

For a view of the Revolution from the people affected by it, consider checking out April Morning. Tracking the brief period of a little over one full day during which the Battle of Lexington and Concord occurred, the short novel offers a glimpse of colonial life and the early genesis of the Revolution. Glimpses we’ve seen of Assassin’s Creed III suggest a strong focus on depictions of daily life during the period, and April Morning shares that same focus.

Hopefully, our list gives you some fun content to dig into as you wait for Assassin’s Creed III. Do you have other books or movies you love about the time period? Share them in the comments section below.

Don’t miss our continued roll-out of content next week as we dig down into some of the actual feature sets of the upcoming game. For more on Assassin’s Creed III right now, visit our game hub at gameinformer.com/ac3, or just click on the banner below.

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

