
  November Cover Revealed: Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron






In 2010, High Moon Studios released War For Cybertron, finally giving Transformers fans a game worth getting excited about. Afterwards, the developer settled back and listened to what the fans wanted, going back to the drawing board to craft a new and improved follow-up. Transformers: Fall of Cybertron continues the story of the Autobots and the Decepticons and their bitter civil war, but changes and improves upon so many of the fundamental ideas that the developer considers the game a natural successor rather than a true sequel. We have over 12 pages of exclusive details on High Moon's new project, including extensive story and gameplay explanations, concept art, and dozens of screenshots. Whether you love the Transformers, or you just love hearing about the next great story-driven action game, Fall of Cybertron should be on your radar. 
To celebrate the announcement of the new game, we're thrilled to reveal two stunning cover images. Our primary cover depicts Optimus Prime alongside a long-absent hero within the Transformers fiction. To view any of the images at an even larger size, either click on the image, or right click to view image.

Our second, limited-run cover reveals some of the darker tone High Moon Studios hopes to explore in Fall of Cybertron. Dangerous days are ahead for the heroic Autobots.

On top of our cover story, we'll be rolling out a a tremendous wealth of additional details throughout the month here on gameinformer.com. Check back every couple of days for more info and additional assets, many of which go above and beyond what you'll find in our print story. To begin exploring all our content, click on the banner below to visit our Transformers: Fall of Cybertron hub page, which will be updated  as we add new features. 
Beyond our exclusive look at Fall of Cybertron, the November issue of Game Informer has a visit to 343 Industries (the new stewards of the Halo franchise), a  peek behind the curtain of one of gaming's biggest publishers in our uncensored history of Ubisoft, and brand new details on The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim through our extensive new hands-on feature. Plus, previews of Assassin's Creed Revelations, Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, and Twisted Metal deliver the latest must-read news. And just how good is Batman: Arkham City? Our full review is finally here.
All this and more is on the way to your mailbox  in the coming days. If you read Game Informer Digital, look for the new issue to arrive in your inbox on October 11.

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

