
  Replaced Offers Atmospheric Futuristic Action






Today’s Xbox Showcase gave us a look at Replaced, from Sad Cat Studios. Replaced is billed as a “cinematic retro-futuristic action-thriller set in a dystopian version of the '80s USA.” Whew! That’s a mouthful, but it gives us at least some sense of what we can expect out of the project, which offered up some great animation and art in today’s trailer.

Players control an A.I. that has been placed inside of a human body, and follows along as that individual explores a bleak and almost post-apocalyptic world. The combat, in particular, looks to offer some really compelling twists, focusing on cool moves that you might see in a high-end action flick. We also saw the main character traversing ruined buildings in some tense platforming sequences.

Meanwhile, the art itself was especially striking, using pixel graphics to paint a potent and realistic world that seems to draw the player into the action. 

Replaced appears to be the debut project from Sad Cat Studios. The development house is based in Minsk, Belarus. The studio is getting publishing help from Coatsink.

Replaced is targeting release in 2022 on Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC, and Xbox Cloud Gaming, and will show up day one on Game Pass.

Replaced as just one of an impressive array of new titles shown at today's Xbox and Bethesda Showcase. Other new and unexpected titles included Plague Tale: Requiem, Slime Rancher 2, and Somerville. Of course, we also got a look at some big and well known names as well. The event included deeper dives into the likes of Halo Infinite, Starfield, and a first look at gameplay for Battlefield 2042.

What was your favorite announcement of the Xbox show? Did Replaced manage to capture your attention amid the mix of big name reveals?

      Products In This Article

Replaced

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

