
  Stranger Things LEGO Set Goes To The Upside Down






            It’s always exciting when LEGO takes on a new property, and doubly so when it’s a great set of characters and locations like those on offer from the Netflix show, Stranger Things. While we’d be excited regardless for a cool building set from the show, the newly announced release entitled “The Upside Down” is a particularly cool concept.

In the new 2,287 piece set, LEGO presents the world of the supernatural show so that we can see both the normal world and the Upside Down simultaneously, with a mirrored presentation of Will Byers’ house. As we’ve come to expect from LEGO, there’s plenty of great details on offer, including a light-up alphabet wall, a bear trap for capturing a Demogorgon, and a wizard hat for Will the Wise. The set also includes eight minifigs of characters from the show, including Eleven, Mike Wheeler, Lucas Sinclair, Dustin Henderson, Will Byers, Joyce Byers, Chief Jim Hopper, and the Demogorgon. Sadly, Bob Newby has been left behind, and won’t be included.

The same scene of the Byers’ home is reflected directly below in a dilapidated and bleak version of the same space, as you’d expect to see it in the Upside Down. Once built, you can even flip the entire display over – it stands upright with either perspective on top.

As the Stranger Things kids will tell you, messing with the Upside Down comes at a cost – the building set runs a hefty $199.99 – but that may be a small price to pay for some fans to bring home the set. Apparently, the whole thing comes in 11 bags (get it?) that are separated out by location, so if you’re building as a family, different people can work on the normal world set while someone else builds the Upside Down version.

You can track down your own version of The Upside Down set from LEGO stores and LEGO.com on June 1.

Check out more detail of the set, and a look at how it flips upside down, in the video below.

            .

Matt Miller
Senior Previews Editor
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

