
  Who Is That Secret Character At The End Of Spider-Man 2?






            With Spider-Man 2 finally out, it won’t take long for the most enthusiastic wall-crawlers to roll credits. For those who do, a surprise character reveal is one of the last things you’ll see in the post-credits stinger. But it may leave you wondering – who is being teased?

SPOILERS AHEAD FOR THE END OF MARVEL’S SPIDER-MAN 2.

With Peter and Miles’ big team-up adventure now complete, developer Insomniac Games seems ready to suggest a new spider-powered hero, introducing this universe’s version of Cindy Moon, aka Silk.

Silk is a more recent addition to the Marvel canon, first appearing in the 2014 relaunch of The Amazing Spider-Man series. The character, created by Dan Slott and Humberto Ramos, is one of several heroic leads that have expanded the scope of the Spider-Man universe.

In her original comic incarnation, Cindy Moon is a Korean-American young woman bit by the same radioactive spider as Peter Parker. While their powers come from the same source, Silk has slightly different twists on many familiar abilities, including organic webbing and a more sophisticated spider sense usually called her “silk sense.”

Unlike Peter, who a short time later became a superhero, Cindy spent her early powered years largely isolated in a locked room under the pretense of keeping her safe from those hunting her. In the years since her reappearance, the character has been involved in a variety of superheroic shenanigans, including an intimate relationship with Peter Parker, a stint undercover for S.H.I.E.L.D., and a number of embroilments with the multiversal mix of spider-powered characters.

Separate from her comic history, in the new Spider-Man 2 game, we get almost no hint of exactly how Cindy Moon may factor into any possible future games. In fact, while it’s a near certainty that this is the same Cindy who became Silk in the comics universe, there’s no indication that this new game incarnation has yet gained superpowers to transform into Silk.

At multiple points during the game, we learn that Rio Morales’ mother has been dating a new partner after the untimely death of Jefferson Davis. But it’s not until after the game’s conclusion that Miles (and his new girlfriend, Hailey Cooper) are at home for a dinner with Rio’s new friend. When the door opens, we meet Albert and his daughter Cindy, but all we see is a brief wave from her (and no shot of her face) before the brief tease finishes.

With Spider-Man 2 only just released to the public, eager fans of Silk likely have a very, very long wait in front of them before we might learn more about her possible role in any future games. With that said, the current game’s title, Spider-Man 2, seems to offer a nod to two distinct spider heroes.  It’s certainly not a stretch to think that a third hero could join in a subsequent Spider-Man 3 game, and Silk could very well play a pivotal role in such a project.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Spider-Man 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Matt Miller
Editor-in-Chief
Matt Miller has been with Game Informer since 2004. He has a special interest in the evolution of game design, the tabletop hobby, and the crafting of interactive narrative. 

Email
Twitter

