
  [Update] Deep Silver Drops Yager As Developer Of Dead Island 2, Yager Offers Comment






Update: Yager has provided a statement on the matter via its Facebook page. The company confirms Deep Silver's announcement that the two have parted ways.
”Our YAGER team is fully committed to the development of AAA quality titles," writes Timo Ullmann, CEO of YAGER Group. "We work closely with international publishers and partners and have at the same time always remained an independent development studio. Our team is made of the best creative minds and tech specialists who all share a common identity. The team worked with enthusiasm to take Dead Island 2 to a new level of quality. However, YAGER and Deep Silver's respective visions of the project fell out of alignment, which led to the decision that has been made. We’ll focus our current efforts on Dreadnought together with Six Foot and our publisher Grey Box as well as on new projects. More details will be disclosed soon. All I can reveal at this point is that gamescom will be awesome for Dreadnought.”
Original Story:
Deep Silver has announced that while Dead Island 2 is still in development, it is handing the reins to someone else. The publisher has announced that it is parting ways with Yager.
This news comes during a rough time for Deep Silver, which saw the delay of Dead Island 2 out of this calendar year. Homefront: The Revolution was also bumped due to problems at developer Crytek, which saw Deep Silver transfer the game to its own newly founded Dambuster studio.
"With Dead Island 2, Deep Silver has always been dedicated to delivering the sequel that Dead Island fans deserve,” the company says in a prepared statement. “After careful consideration, today we announce the decision to part ways with development partner YAGER. We will continue working towards bringing our vision of Dead Island 2 to life, and we will share further information at a later stage."

Our TakeThis is a huge blow to Deep Silver, as the project clearly had reached a point of needing to take a different path. While we don’t have specific details, the delay might hint at missed milestones that led them to this decision. We’ll likely still see Dead Island 2, but it’s not going to be for a while yet.

