
  Ubisoft Giving Out Free DLC, Additional Games As Assassin's Creed Unity Apology






Ubisoft has confirmed that plans for an Assassin’s Creed Unity season pass have been changed a bit. The pass was slated to include the “Dead Kings” campaign, new missions, and an entire new game.
Assassin’s Creed Unity has been plagued with problems since its November 18 launch. The title has had a number of bugs and glitches that have impacted play, including one crash that is caused by adding friends to the in-game social list.
In a note to fans, Ubisoft Montreal CEO Yannis Mallat addresses the problems the title has faced and what the publisher will do to make it right for purchasers. Every player will receive the Dead Kings DLC free. Anyone who has already bought into the season pass will receive another Ubisoft game from a select list of titles, including The Crew, Far Cry 4, Watch Dogs, Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag, Rayman Legends, and Just Dance 2015.  Redemption details will be available soon.
"Unfortunately, at launch, the overall quality of the game was diminished by bugs and unexpected technical issues," Mallat writes. "I want to sincerely apologize on behalf of Ubisoft and the entire Assassin's Creed team. These problems took away from your enjoyment of the game, and kept many of you from experiencing the game at its fullest potential."
Ubisoft has already announced details on the next title update, called Patch 3. Another is in the works, as well.
"In addition to the latest patch and this offer, we are committed to delivering further fixes for other issues you’ve raised," Mallat writes. "In the meantime, please keep your feedback coming – it has been both humbling and incredibly helpful as we continue working hard to improve the overall quality of the game. We are hopeful that with these forthcoming updates, everyone will be able to truly enjoy their Assassin’s Creed Unity experience."
[Source: Ubisoft (1), (2)]

Our TakeUbisoft is making the right move here to appease those that purchased the game and the season pass. What gamers really want is for this to not happen again. We'd rather be enjoying these games than wondering when they'll finally be in appropriate working order.

