
  April Cover Revealed – Batman: Arkham Knight






The developer that made Arkham a household name is back. Rocksteady Studios' Arkham Asylum innovated with the freeflow combat system and stalking gameplay in 2009, and the team blew it all out to an open world in 2011's Arkham City. Rocksteady is hoping to raise the bar even higher on what will be its final Arkham game. Set after the events of Arkham City, Batman: Arkham Knight may just end the Dark Knight's journey.
As you've probably guessed from the cover imagery, the Batmobile is finally a core element of the gameplay. An entirely new area of Gotham City, far larger than Arkham City, has much wider streets to accommodate the new driving gameplay that is designed to integrate smoothly with Batman's gliding and grappling traversal. Batman chases down super villains Scarecrow, Penguin, Two-Face, Harley Quinn, and more.
Arkham Knight will release later this year on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. We've got 14 action-packed pages loaded with the first details and a whole month of exclusive content here on gameinformer.com. Get a sneak peek at what's in store in our coverage trailer below (or on YouTube) and watch the four-minute debut trailer right here.
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our Batman: Arkham Knight coverage, the April issue contains a great mix of features, previews, and reviews. Our annual parody section Game Infarcer is back, and "Looking Toward The Horizon" is a chat with industry insiders on the big issues facing the gaming industry. “Surviving The Game” looks at the return of unforgiving difficulty to modern titles. We also take a look at several new-gen open-world games releasing in 2014 to see what technological and gameplay advances are in store.

Print subscribers can watch for their issues to arrive in the coming days. If you subscribe digitally, your April issue is available now on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here. Click on the banner below to visit the hub and keep track of our month of exclusive Batman: Arkham Knight content.

You can also follow our Batman: Arkham Knight updates and other stories by
following Game Informer on Twitter, Google+,
and Facebook.

