
  Game Informer's Top Scoring Game Reviews Of 2015






We review loads of games every year, but only the best receive our special Game Informer awards. Some earn a Silver (a score of 8.5 to 8.75), some Gold (9.0 to 9.5), and an elite few make it all the way to Platinum (9.75 to 10). We've compiled every awarded game released so far in 2015 so that you can easily browse and keep track of the top scoring games. If a particular game catches your eye, you can click on the title to read the full review. Be sure to check back every month as more games are added to the list.
Check out our Top Scoring Game Reviews of 2014 as well!
Editor's Note: List last updated 12/01/15
Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM

Devil May Cry 4 Special EditionPS4, Xbox One, PC | 8.5
“Stylish action games have evolved a lot in recent years, and this release skillfully straddles the line between new and old. The extra characters offer more variety and versatility that any fan of the genre should appreciate. They don’t completely mask the other problems, but the inventive twists on the content ultimately outweigh the legacy complaints.” —Joe Juba

Disgaea 5: Alliance of VengeancePS4 | 8.5
"Disgaea 5 serves up a hearty helping of enjoyable tactical RPG combat, and lives up to the expectations established by its forerunners in the series. Games like this always face the danger of repetition as you plod through level after level, but Disgaea 5 manages keeps things interesting despite the grind."—Daniel Tack
Disney Infinity 3.0PS4 | 8.5 (Also on Xbox One, Wii U, PS3, and 360)
"No matter what the future may bring, this series is once again in tip-top shape, and is a place where adults and kids alike should be able to indulge in a wealth of fun."—Andrew Reiner
Dying LightPS4, Xbox One, PC | 8.5
“Despite technical and parkour missteps, the rewarding combat mechanics, well-executed narrative, and excellent cooperative multiplayer bring players a delightful time in the shadow of the impending apocalypse. Dying Light is a strong open-world zombie game that delivers a good experience on nearly every front.” —Brian Shea
EvolvePS4, Xbox One, PC | 8.5 
"As it is, Evolve does its one thing remarkably well, and the few other gripes I have – including long, multi-stage load times and the inability to customize A.I. teammates when playing with friends – don't dampen my enthusiasm for playing more. Evolve's matchups offer a lot of replayability and competitive thrills, and I can see myself returning to it consistently in the following months – even if those play sessions do inevitably end with me lusting for more to do in the world."—Jeff Marchiafava
Far Cry 4: Valley of the YetisPS4, Xbox One, PC | 8.5(Also on PS3, 360) 
"Valley of the Yetis is easily Far Cry 4's best post-release offering. It's small enough where you can see everything it has to offer in a reasonable amount of time, but large enough where you feel like you're getting a whole new Far Cry 4 experience. It's more Far Cry 4 in the best way, and there's enough new content here where nothing feels like a retread – it feels like an extension."—Kyle Hilliard
HelldiversPS4, PS3, Vita | 8.5 
"Even after the unlocks dry up, the challenge and camaraderie that Helldivers offers makes it hard not to attempt "just one more mission" with your friends, a proposition made all the more enticing by the inclusion of four-player couch co-op. I still don't know how the community-driven galactic campaign will shake out over the coming weeks, but contributing to the larger war effort is just one more welcome excuse to enlist."—Jeff Marchiafava
Her StoryPC | 8.5(Also on iOS) 
"Her Story forces you to pay attention in a way most games don't. I didn't want to miss one thread. Every word said could be a potential new lead, the dates on the videos are essential for making connections, and even certain visual differences in her clothes and appearance hold clues. I reveled in every "aha" moment, feeling a sense of achievement for catching even the smallest threads. For a more compact experience (about two or three hours), it certainly sticks with you. Her Story is an intriguing experimentation in game narrative. Its vastly different approach to telling a complex story is reason alone to play it."—Kimberley Wallace
Hotline Miami 2PC | 8.5(also on PS4, PS3, Vita, PC, Mac)  
"The unrivaled sense of relief that comes from completing an area is a testament to how well-designed each level is. Though it is not for the faint of heart, Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number provides thrills at the occasional and momentary cost of your sanity. Though you’ll likely find yourself screaming at your screen on a regular basis, you’re equally as likely to find yourself eagerly loading the next level."—Brian Shea 
Kerbal Space ProgramPC | 8.5(Also on PS4, Mac) 
"Kerbal Space Program provides something for everyone: players who will never see a return voyage from “the Mun,” and those who delve into special resource gathering, landing, docking, and crew-out-of-ship activities. If you are a creative type who loves to fool around with physics, you’ll probably love Kerbal Space Program. If you’re just looking to create unbelievable, ridiculous rockets with an impractical number of fuel pods, you can still have plenty of fun. Whatever your level of engagement, you can enjoy shooting these little green Smurfs into space – or into the nearby scenery."—Daniel Tack
Life is Strange Episode 1: ChrysalisPC | 8.5(Also on PS4, Xbox One, PS3, 360) 
"The next episode will surely define what Dontnod is out to accomplish, but Life is Strange’s introduction is a good look at the characters and dilemmas. It did its job of getting me interested. I have some minor concerns about how original the subject matter will turn out to be, but the focus on realistic problems is refreshing and the care put into Maxine’s world and the relationship-building holds plenty of promise."—Kimberley Wallace
Minecraft: Story Mode – Episode 3: The Last Place You LookPC | 8.5(Also on PS4, Xbox One, PS3, 360, iOS, Android) 
"With a feeling of real narrative progression, strong action sequences, and a script that draws you in to the events unfolding in the story, The Last Place You Look is Minecraft: Story Mode’s best episode yet. Episode 3 gets the series back on track and makes any fears I had stemming from Episode 2 feel like a distant memory."—Brian Shea
Path of Exile: The AwakeningPC | 8.5
"The Awakening is a welcome and wild addition, giving Path of Exile just what it needs to stay interesting. With the additions in this expansion and other content updates since launch, there’s enough variety and alternate advancement to keep even the most voracious of loot grinders and build optimizers coming back for more."—Daniel Tack
Project CarsPS4 | 8.5(Also on Xbox One and PC)
"In a genre where it can be hard to differentiate yourself, Project Cars makes its mark. It's not as strong as it could be in all areas, but Slightly Mad Studios' attention to detail and racing chops make the game a contender."—Matthew Kato
SomaPC | 8.5(Also on PS4) 
"Video games have challenged us to unsympathetically blast apart deadly robots since their earliest days. Soma’s impressively realized underwater ordeal challenges even the coldest robot-slayers to consider a world where making such snap moral decisions is anything but automatic."—Tim Turi 
Titan SoulsPC | 8.5(Also on PS4 and Vita) 
"The simple, distilled formula is a refreshing change of pace from the increasingly complex systems many modern games present to players. The thematic ground of an enigmatic little warrior battling ambiguously aligned beasts is worn territory, but Acid Nerve injects enough of its own style and rewarding moments to justify this tribute. The extra challenges you unlock after beating the game, like a harder difficulty and one-life mode, offer nice replayability to the five-hour adventure. If you're looking for a stiff challenge and a captivating atmosphere to lose yourself in, look no further."—Tim Turi 

Yo-kai Watch 3DS | 8.5 
"Comparing Yo-kai Watch to Pokémon is more than fair as the game borrows from the series that helped establish what has become its own genre, but there’s no reason to pick one over the other. Yo-kai Watch is a worthy competitor that stands comfortably next to Nintendo’s monster collector as a distinct peer."—Kyle Hilliard

Yoshi's Woolly WorldWii U | 8.5 
"Yoshi’s Woolly World is the Wii U’s best-looking game, as well as the best Yoshi’s Island since the original Super Nintendo title. It has a great balance of challenge, exciting bosses, callbacks to the first game, and enough new mechanics and touches to make it easily stand above each attempt at creating a Yoshi’s Island successor of the past two decades."—Kyle Hilliard

Cities: SkylinesPC | 8.75(Also on Mac) 
"Through deep and rewarding gameplay, Colossal Order’s new simulation fills the increasingly noticeable void in the genre. Where others have failed, Cities: Skyline excels and delivers the new gold standard of modern city-builders."—Brian Shea
FIFA 16PS4 | 8.75 (Also on Xbox One, PS3, 360, and PC)
"FIFA 16 isn't going to blow you away with any single feature. Instead, it falls back on its strong gameplay to provide a fresh experience."—Matthew Kato
Galactic Civilizations IIIPC | 8.75 
"Galactic Civilizations III has something to offer everyone, from the most bloodthirsty space pirates to puppetmasters operating from the shadows. Despite the availability of campaign and multiplayer modes, playing skirmish after skirmish is where the experience shines. It’s a fun, deep, and somehow accessible entry in a genre that’s often viewed as complicated and excessively complex. If you’re looking for a foray into deep space strategy that supports a host of different playstyles and features plenty of customization, there’s no need to hop to the next wormhole – it’s right here."—Daniel Tack

Halo 5: GuardiansXbox One | 8.75 
"If the last major entry represented 343 taking possession of the Halo house, this new installment shows it is ready to move the furniture around and make it their own. Some aspects of the game feel different than what longtime players have come to expect, but I’m happy to see a willingness to innovate. Despite some missteps, Halo 5 is an easy recommendation for the predominant moments during which the game shines."—Matt Miller  
Hand of FatePC | 8.75(Also on PS4, Xbox One, Mac)  
"I noticed a difficulty spike toward the end, but overall the card-based journey is a fun, challenging jaunt that should leave you craving more as you run into disasters and tough battles, taking your tokens and licking your wounds as each attempt brings you just a little closer to the next boss. While the game could use some enemy variety, overall the good mix of encounters and potential outcomes shine and keep things interesting the whole way through."—Daniel Tack
Lego DimensionsPS4 | 8.75(Also available on Xbox One, Wii U, PS3, 360)
"Whether you just purchase the core set or go bonkers purchasing figures, Lego Dimensions delivers big thrills and fun playability both in the game and on your living-room floor."—Andrew Reiner
Madden NFL 16PS4 | 8.75(Also on Xbox One, PS3, and 360)
"Changing Madden's modes isn't the priority this year, but you shouldn't skip this year's game. After years of fitful progress, Madden 16 finally puts its gameplay pieces together and delivers a truly dynamic on-the-field experience."—Matt Kato
Magic Duels: OriginsPC | 8.75(Also on Xbox One, PC, and iPad)
"Magic Duels is the best implementation of the Duels of the Planeswalkers series yet, with great deckbuilding options that can pull together themed decks in mere moments and cool incentives to experiment outside your comfort zone."—Daniel Tack
Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate3DS | 8.75 
"I’ve poured a ton of time into MH4U, but in the context of this series I understand this is only the beginning. Hundreds of solo and multiplayer missions await, along with a staggering number of huge monsters to hunt and lots of gear to craft. Don’t let the early learning hours and initially perplexing systems deter you; this is the best opportunity to find out what keeps fans coming back to Monster Hunter. As an enamored new fan, quitting isn’t an option."—Tim Turi
Rare ReplayXbox One | 8.75 
"The breadth of content is impressive, and each game has been faithfully ported and upgraded in ways that don’t interfere the original experience. It serves as an exciting reminder of Rare’s best years and makes seeing the developer’s iconic blue and gold logo exciting all over again."—Kyle Hilliard
Rock Band 4PS4 | 8.75 (Also one Xbox One)
" In this year’s music-game scene, Rock Band 4 offers tried-and-true polish, and an impressive opportunity for backward compatibility. Whether you’re importing a back catalog or not, the new title stands on its own with smart music selections, and skill-based gameplay refined over years of experimentation."—Matt Miller

StarCraft II: Legacy of the VoidPC | 8.75 
"Legacy of the Void is an extremely polished experience packed with features for all styles of players, but the campaign suffers from a muddled, middling narrative and maps that sometimes feel too much alike. Overall, it’s still an impressive experience with powerful protoss style and flavor, a handful of cool levels that play with the genre in unique ways, and a cache of fun multiplayer components that come together to create a solid conclusion to one of the most iconic real-time strategy games of all time." —Daniel Tack
VolumePC | 8.75  
"Volume’s story levels are designed with the same care that players must use when playing, and I enjoyed the experience from start to finish. With true stealth games a rare breed today, Volume stands as a declaration that the formula can still work."—Brian Shea
Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM
Be sure to click on the blue game titles to jump to the full review text.

Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM

ApotheonPC | 9 (Also on PS4 and Mac) 
"For me, the rich single-player experience was more than enough. Not only is Apotheon a tireless devotion to ancient Greek art and culture, it’s also a damn fun game and one of my surprise early favorites of 2015."—Bryan Vore
Assassin's Creed: SyndicatePS4 | 9 (Also available on Xbox One and PC)
"With a cool setting, memorable characters, and a wealth of content, Assassin’s Creed Syndicate has all of the hallmarks of a great Assassin’s Creed entry – but it also surprised me by challenging what I previously thought a great entry should be."—Joe Juba 
Civilization: Beyond Earth - Rising TidePC | 9 
"Rising Tide is an overhauled look at the core experience, and it would be difficult to go back to Beyond Earth without the myriad enhancements the expansion offers. As with Civilization V before it, Beyond Earth looks like it’s becoming all it can be as it evolves with these upgrades."—Daniel Tack
Dark Souls II: Scholar of the First SinPS4 | 9 (Also on Xbox One, PS3, 360, and PC) 
"Scholar of the First Sin is best suited for two types of player: Complete Souls newcomers that insist on playing with the latest hardware, and returning warriors who soaked up every bit of new game-plus content loaded into the original. While I don't think the encounters are quite up to the level of the original, it's hard to argue with more of one of 2014's best games."—Tim Turi
DmC Devil May Cry: Definitive EditionPS4 | 9 (Also on Xbox One) 
"No game is perfect. Even when we play the best ones, we find things that we wish the developer had done differently. Devil May Cry: Definitive Edition is a rare case where the developer goes back and fixes those things, big and small. Whether you’re a newcomer or a devoted fan, this is a remaster done right."—Joe Juba
Call of Duty: Black Ops IIIPS4 | 9 (Also on Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PC) 
"Despite a campaign that struggles with occasional mundane shootouts that bring the out-of-this-world story down to earth, the overall Call of Duty: Black Ops III package is incredibly strong, with something for everyone. Whether you’re into traditional multiplayer mayhem or zombie survival, you’ve got lots of choices that are fun solo and even better with friends."—Daniel Tack
Fallout 4Xbox One | 9 (Also on PS4 and PC0)
"Fallout 4 didn’t blow me away like the previous iteration did, but it did keep me thoroughly entertained and fully vested in journeying across the wasteland."—Andrew Reiner
God of War III RemasteredPS4 | 9
"If you were planning on playing (or replaying) God of War III regardless, you can’t go wrong with this version. It’s the same game that earned so much acclaim five years ago. With that being said, God of War III Remastered does nothing to entice old players to return; apart from photo mode, you won’t find any new options or tweaks to inject novelty into the adventure. You even need to beat the game before you can use the handful of included DLC costumes. God of War III is still a fantastic experience, and a significant beat in gaming history, but this remaster doesn’t build on its legacy."—Joe Juba
Hearthstone: Blackrock MountainPC | 9 (Also on iOS, Android, and Mac)  
"Blizzard’s second adventure continues the high standard that Naxxramas set for the digital card game, with plenty of unique voices, sounds, cards, and encounters that ooze their respective World of Warcraft counterpart’s flavor while adding their own unique elements to the ever-evolving Hearthstone landscape. While there’s not a whole lot for players to do in the single-player campaign after they punch out the content on normal and heroic difficulty, the cards that can be acquired here will have impact in casual, ranked, and arena play for years to come."—Daniel Tack
Hearthstone: The Grand TournamentPC | 9 (Also on iOS, Android, and Mac)  
"The Grand Tournament is a much-needed influx of interesting cards and mechanics for Hearthstone. It’s loaded with flavorful characters, cool abilities, and new goodies to keep the game fresh and interesting. If you’ve been waiting to jump into the digital card game craze, now’s a great time."—Daniel Tack
The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D3DS | 9  
"Purists will decry the changes made to Majora’s Mask no matter how slight they may be, but I am seated firmly in the “change is good” camp. It’s everything you remember, but without the boredom or frustration related to the passage of time. Majora’s Mask was a game ahead of its time in 2000, and revisiting it under this new lens only confirms that sentiment. Whether you’re returning to Termina or visiting it for the first time, Majora’s Mask 3D is the ideal way to experience this classic."—Kyle Hilliard
NBA 2K16PS4 | 9  (Also on Xbox One and PC)
 "NBA 2K16 is the first true classic sports game of this console generation. I can only hope other sports games follow Visual Concepts’ steadfast dedication to innovating on both the gameplay and game mode fronts."—Matt Bertz
Pro Evolution Soccer 2016PS4 | 9  (Also on Xbox One, PS3, and 360)
"Developer PES Productions has talked the last two years about laying the foundation for the future, and this is the succulent fruit of their labor. PES 2016 is about more than just a few additions for the year. It ushers in a new era for the franchise that needs to be experienced."—Matthew Kato
Puzzle & Dragons Z + Puzzle & Dragons Super Mario Bros. Edition3DS | 9   
"I’ve been a fan of the original Puzzle & Dragons since it came out, and I think it’s finally met its match. The stories in Puzzle & Dragons Z + Puzzle & Dragons Super Mario Bros. Edition (whew!) are a bit hokey, but both games are so strong overall that I may be able to finally clean out some space on my iPad."—Jeff Cork
Super Mario MakerWii U | 9  
"Super Mario Maker is simple without being shallow and dense without being overwhelming. Its capabilities are limited compared to other creation games (you can only make platformer levels) but I never felt like I hit a wall in terms of creativity, and was consistently surprised by the work of others."—Kyle Hilliard
Rocket LeaguePS4, PC | 9
"There is a single-player option in the form of a season mode, though playing against A.I. isn’t nearly as satisfying as knowing that you’re getting one past (or helping out) another player. The focus here is multiplayer, and if you can’t get online or wrangle up some fellow players for local matches, you’re missing out on the best experience the game offers."—Jeff Cork
Until DawnPS4 | 9
"Thanks to some good twists, a few fake-outs, and limitless jump scares, Until Dawn would make a solid horror film. As a piece of interactive fiction, however, it's a remarkable experience that horror fans shouldn't miss."—Jeff Marchiafava 
Xenoblade Chronicles 3D3DS | 9 
"Xenoblade Chronicles remains a must-play RPG. While this version doesn't do anything special to entice old fans to return, it still holds the same fun it did the first time around. Don't let it pass you by again if it did previously; this world captivates and takes hold of you like a great game should."—Kimberley Wallace
You Must Build a BoatiOS | 9(Also on Android, PC, and Mac) 
"Despite the slight drop-off toward the end and the low replay value, You Must Build a Boat is a great experience while it lasts. For a good six to nine hours, building a boat will indeed become the most important task in your life."—Bryan Vore 

Axiom VergePS4 | 9.25 (Also on PC and Mac) 
"Throughout my time with Axiom Verge I was constantly excited to explore strange worlds, gain game-changing powerups, and fire off a new gun for the first time. Almost everything you pick up feels meaningful, unlike collecting overabundant missile-capacity expansions that you don’t even need. I heartily applaud Tom Happ’s first solo effort. It’s incredible that he was able to nail every component of game creation in one package. I’ll wait as long as it takes for him to build a follow-up. When everything works this well, why let someone else get in there and screw it up?"—Bryan Vore
Bloodborne: The Old HuntersPS4 | 9.25 
"The Old Hunters has questions, has answers, and has some glorious new secrets to be uncovered. If you have already experienced Bloodborne, this add-on is absolutely essential. If you haven’t, it’s the perfect time to join the Old Hunters and journey through the streets of Yharnam and the new nightmares that follow."—Daniel Tack 
Broken Age: Act IIPC | 9.25(Also on PS4, Vita, iOS, Android, and Mac) 
"I was happy to rejoin Shay and Vella and help guide them through this adventure’s conclusion. Who doesn’t want to root for a pair of underdogs, especially when they’re up against forces that seem to relish in ignorance? In spite of the bizarre human-sacrifice mythology and space-simulation hijinks, Broken Age is a wonderful tale grounded in relationships and how two people – no matter how insignificant they might seem – can make a difference."—Jeff Cork
Heroes of the StormPC | 9.25(Also on Mac) 
"Heroes of the Storm succeeds like so many other Blizzard titles by taking what makes a genre great and distilling things down to the fun, and it does so with plenty of charm and character. With quick and action-packed games, Heroes of the Storm is accessible to new players, but with enough depth that to ensure that you are still learning new ways to use your abilities in different situations and battlegrounds after hundreds of games. As with many games in the genre, Heroes of the Storm is best experienced with friends."—Daniel Tack
Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom PainPS4 | 9.25 (Also on Xbox One, PS3, 360, and PC)
"A series can’t survive this long without evolving, and The Phantom Pain is a testament to the importance of taking risks. An open world, a customizable base, a variable mission structure – these are not traditional aspects of Metal Gear, but they are what makes The Phantom Pain such an exceptional game. The gameplay, storytelling, and protagonists in Metal Gear may shift with each new installment, but Kojima’s ability to surprise and enthrall gamers remains unchanged."—Joe Juba
Mortal Kombat XPS4 | 9.25(Also on Xbox One and PC) 
"Mortal Kombat X is a fantastic successor in every sense. The mechanics may be similar to 2011’s strong release, but with so many new modes and features permeating every part of the experience, it’s a worthy upgrade. Mortal Kombat X is more than the continuation of NetherRealm’s successful vision for the franchise; it’s one of the best fighting games in years."—Brian Shea 
Pillars of EternityPC | 9.25(Also on Mac) 
"Obsidian has put together a massive game, and exploring both the critical path and a significant chunk of the side content is a 50+ hour project. With an adventure that big, standard combat encounters can fall into a routine, and the plentiful reading involved may not be for everyone. However, players who have been waiting for a deep, true role-playing epic are virtually guaranteed to fall in love. Obsidian should have no shortage of fans cheering for another installment, and I’ll be among them."—Matt Miller

Batman: Arkham KnightPS4 | 9.5(Also on Xbox One) 
"At the end of it all, Batman: Arkham Knight delivers a great sense of closure for this series. Rocksteady leaves a few plot threads dangling to tease and taunt us, but the grim tale that started all the way back in Arkham Asylum is done. I walked away from Arkham Knight shocked, satisfied, and in dire need of someone to discuss the story with. Rocksteady built a special experience that dazzles with its cleverness, intelligence, and ability to shift from kick-ass Batman moments to emotional gut punches to scenes stripped straight from some of Batman's greatest comic book stories. Lock yourself away, avoid social media and friends, and finish this game. You won't want this one spoiled for you."—Andrew Reiner
Destiny: The Taken KingPS4 | 9.5(Also on Xbox One, PS3, and 360) 
"The Taken King is a testament to Bungie’s craftsmanship and its ability to listen to the feedback from the players who both loved and hated year one. The studio has given us a game that truly is legend."—Andy McNamara
Ori and the Blind ForestXbox One | 9.5(Also on PC)"Ori and the Blind Forest is one of the best games of the year, and should be a no-brainer for anyone looking for an exciting new adventure to dive into. That said, it comes with a warning: Expect to be humbled by its difficulty. Death comes quickly. Over and over, you’re going to watch an adorable little creature perish because you had a moment of indecision or your skills failed you. Again, nothing about this experience feels unfair. Some of the long scripted sequences are enormously challenging – to the point that you’ll likely repeat every swear word that you know."—Andrew Reiner
Rise of the Tomb RaiderXbox One| 9.5
"Rise of the Tomb Raider captures the thrill of being an adventurer and leaves you thinking about Lara's next move. You have daredevil sequences, heroic moments, fun exploration, and exciting fights that even Indiana Jones would envy. If Crystal Dynamics keeps raising the bar from here, I can't wait to see what's next for Lara."—Kimberley Wallace  
Resident Evil HD RemasterPS4 | 9.5(Also on Xbox One, PS3, 360, and PC) 
"These new controls, along with a new easy mode that boosts ammo and health and makes enemies far weaker, present the perfect jumping-on point for RE fans that've been hesitant to try out the classics that solidified the genre's legacy. Purists can stick to the original controls and aspect ratio, but I doubt I'll be going back after shedding the clunky mechanics. I'd love to see Capcom remake the entire catalog of early titles in this style."—Tim Turi 
UndertalePC | 9.5
"Undertale took me about six hours to complete my first playthrough, but every one of those hours is special, and I immediately dove back in to explore some of the additional content. Undertale may not be the prettiest game at the ball, but it is a fantastic, unique take on a classic genre that defies all expectations."—Daniel Tack
Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM
Be sure to click on the blue game titles to jump to the full review text.

Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM

BloodbornePS4 | 9.75 
"Bloodborne is a blood-drenched horror gem that has only the faintest of cracks in its façade. Bloodborne succeeds through sparse storytelling, lush atmospheres (conjuring up notions of the best of Lovecraft’s work), and tight combat that forces you to be aggressive. While this new IP doesn’t stray far from the established Souls franchise, it is a magical, wondrous work that admirably instills both terror and triumph in those brave enough to delve into it."—Daniel Tack
The Witcher 3: Wild HuntPS4 | 9.75 (Also on Xbox One and PC) 
"The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt encompasses what I hope is the future of RPGs. It stands out for its wonderful writing, variety of quests and things to do in the world, and how your choices have impact in interesting ways. Usually something is sacrificed when creating a world this ambitious, but everything felt right on cue. I still think about some of my choices and how intriguing they turned out – for better or worse."—Kimberley Wallace
Nav: SILVER | GOLD | PLATINUM
Be sure to click on the blue game titles to jump to the full review text.
For more excellent games to try, check out our Top Scoring Game Reviews of 2014 as well!

            .

