
  May Cover Revealed: Batman: Arkham Origins






Warner Bros. Games Montreal has taken the mantle of the bat from Rocksteady Studios this time around for Batman: Arkham Origins. WB Montreal has full access to Rocksteady's custom modified Unreal engine to capture the look and feel of the Arkhamverse.  As the title suggests, the game takes place years before both of the previous Arkham titles when a young, unrefined Batman encounters many supervillains for the first time. On our full cover image below, fans will recognize the assassin Deathstroke, who appears for the very first time in a core Arkham game. 
Heading up the vision for Arkham Origins is creative director Eric Holmes, known for being the lead designer of open world action hits The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction and Prototype. A self-professed lover of comics, Holmes even wrote the miniseries Transformers: Megatron Origin for IDW. 
Gamers won't have to wait long to experience Batman's lastest adventure. Batman: Arkham Origins releases October 25, 2013 on Wii U, Playstation 3, Xbox 360, and PC.

But that's not all. We also have a feature on the first handheld Arkham game, Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate. Releasing on 3DS and Vita the same day as the home console version, Blackgate is a completely separate experience that takes place after the events of Arkham Origins. Armature Studio is developing the 2.5-D Metroid-style exploration action game. Industry followers will recognize Armature Studio as the company founded by several of the leads from the Metroid Prime trilogy. 
Watch our coverage trailer below to get a taste of all the Batman content headed your way over the next several weeks.

Sorry, this video is not available

Watch the YouTube version here if you prefer.

Telltale Games' The Wolf Among Us
Also in the issue, we get the first look at Telltale Games' next episodic series post-The Walking Dead, The Wolf Among Us. Based on the Fables comic books, the new series kicks off this summer. We've also got a deep dive on Double Fine's Broken Age, the adventure game that broke Kickstarter records. Outside of huge game features, we spoke with Irrational Games' Ken Levine about creating memorable characters, weigh in on video game gambling, chat with Apple legend Steve Wozniak about the early days of gaming, and look back with Harmonix on its ambitious weekly DLC plan for Rock Band as it comes to a close. All this and more awaits print and digital subscribers.

Double Fine's Broken Age
Print subscribers should start seeing their May issues in the next 
two weeks. If you can't wait that long, you can subscribe to our digital
 issue – which can be accessed via web browser, iPad, or Android
 devices right now! 
If you aren't yet a digital subscriber, you can convert your print subscription here or start a new subscription here.
 You can also purchase individual issues or subscribe via the 
appropriate apps. If you prefer a physical copy of the magazine, contact
 backissues@gameinformer.com.Click the banner below to go to our Batman: Arkham Origins hub, where you'll find additional exclusive content throughout the month.

