
  The Arsenal Of Halo 4






Get a look at 343's redesigns of classic UNSC weapons and catch the debut of an all-new Halo gun.
Misriah Armory has been very busy. As you'll see in 343 Industries' designs and descriptions of some of the guns appearing in Halo 4, the manufacturer has a very lucrative contract with the UNSC. Old favorites like the assault rifle, battle rifle, DMR, and sniper rifle will all be returning. The very last weapon, the railgun, will debut for the very first time in Halo 4.
Go ahead and get the first details of all the guns now, and be sure to click on the images for a better look.
ASSAULT RIFLEDESIGNATION: MA5D Individual Combat Weapon SystemMANUFACTURER: Misriah ArmoryThe MA5D ICWS is an exceptionally resilient gas-operated, magazine-fed, automatic rifle designed to execute close-quarters combat with lethal efficiency, regardless of hostile counter-op environmental conditions or duration of use in the field.

BATTLE RIFLEDESIGNATION: BR85 Heavy-Barrel Service RifleMANUFACTURER: Misriah ArmoryThe BR85HB Service Rifle is a gas-operated, magazine-fed, semi-automatic rifle optimized for three-round burst firing, and proven to be an extraordinarily versatile weapon at a wide variety of ranges and in the hands of a capable marksman.

DMRDESIGNATION: M395 Designated Marksman RifleMANUFACTURER: Misriah ArmoryThe M395 DMR is a gas-operated, magazine-fed, marksman rifle that maintains a smart-linked, telescopic, rail-mounted sight for scout personnel. This rifle favors mid-range to long-range combat, offering impressive stopping power.

SNIPER RIFLEDESIGNATION: Sniper Rifle System 99-Series 5 Anti-MaterielMANUFACTURER: Misriah ArmoryThe
 SRS99-S5 AM is a gas-operated, magazine-fed, semi-automatic sniper 
rifle with exceptional accuracy and the ability to simultaneously breach
 both energy-shielding and high-density armor, making immediate kills 
nearly effortless when this weapon is properly utilized.
RAILGUNDESIGNATION: Asymmetric Recoilless Carbine-920MANUFACTURER: Acheron SecurityThe ARC-920 Railgun is a compact-channel linear accelerator that fires a high-explosive round at incredible speed, delivering both kinetic and explosive force to both hard and soft targets alike.

For more about Halo 4, click on the banner below to visit this month's hub.

