
  GI Show – Dauntless, Vampyr, Danny O'Dwyer Interview






            Welcome back to The Game Informer Show! On this episode Kyle Hilliard and Andrew Reiner talk about seeing new levels from the remaster of Spyro the Dragon and a couple of fun Nintendo games. Then Jeff Cork talks about his time playing Far Cry 5's new Vietnam DLC, Hours Of Darkness, and Dan Tack talks about the Monster Hunter-like free-to-play Dauntless. Brian Shea and Joe Juba are also on the show to discuss some exclusive chapters that we've played in Octopath Traveler for the Nintendo Switch and some early impressions of Vampyr from Dontnod. After some great community emails, we're joined by Gamespot-alumn Danny O'Dwyer to talk about Noclip's new documentary on Bethesda Game Studios and Fallout 76.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen to episode 402 on SoundCloud, or download the MP3 by clicking here. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

1:45 - Spyro Reignited Trilogy
10:50 - Dillon's Dead-Heat Breakers
14:35 - Launching Game Informer's new site/E3 2018 planning
20:35 - Sushi Strikers on Nintendo Switch
23:40 - Far Cry 5's Hours of Darkness Vietnam DLC
34:15 - Dauntless
42:35 - Octopath Traveler
53:18 - Vampyr
1:02:45 - Community Emails
1:36:12 - Danny O'Dwyer Noclip Interview

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

Ben Hanson
Video Producer
Ben Hanson has been a video producer with Game Informer since 2010, he produces most of the cover story video content and hosts The Game Informer Show podcast.

Email
Twitter

