
  GI Show – Black Ops 4, Fallout 76, Spider-Man Interview






            Game Informer's Ben Hanson, Dan Tack, Leo Vader, and Jeff Cork talk about Tack's glowing review of the new Call of Duty and why the Blackout battle royale mode stands out in particular. We also talk about the best party games of all time with the new release of Jackbox Party Pack 5 and Leo Vader insists on talking about Crayola Scoot. Then Andrew Reiner joins the show to walk us through his conflicted feelings on his time playing Fallout 76. Before we get to some great community emails, we kick off a new segment on The GI Show we're calling "Every Game Is Interesting", tune in to learn about our bold challenge. In the back half of the show, Insomniac's creative director Bryan Intihar and lead writer Jon Paquette talk about developing and writing Spider-Man on the PlayStation 4. Be careful, we get into spoilers.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen to episode 419 on SoundCloud, or download the MP3 by clicking here. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

4:55 - Call of Duty: Black Ops 4
16:20 - Jackbox Party Pack 5
26:17 - Visage
30:50 - Crayola Scoot
32:37 - Fallout 76
43:40 - Microsoft buying Obsidian rumors
50:15 - Microsoft's Project xCloud and Google's Project Stream
56:25 - The Missing: J.J. Macfield and the Island of Memories
57:40 - Every Game Is Interesting: The Challenge
1:05:55 - Community emails
1:40:30 - Insomniac's Bryan Intihar and Jon Paquette discuss/spoil Spider-Man

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

Ben Hanson
Video Producer
Ben Hanson has been a video producer with Game Informer since 2010, he produces most of the cover story video content and hosts The Game Informer Show podcast.

Email
Twitter

