
  GI Show – Warcraft III Exclusive, Diablo Immortal, Red Dead Developer Roundtable






            Welcome back to The Game Informer Show! On this episode, Ben Hanson, Dan Tack, Andrew Reiner, and Andy McNamara talk about Blizzcon 2018's highlights, the outrage over Diablo Immortal, and share exclusive details on Wacraft III: Reforged based on our new cover story. Then Kyle Hilliard, Kimberley Wallace, and Jeff Cork join the show to talk about From Software and Miyazaki's new PSVR game Déraciné and Namco's drumming game Taiko no Tatsujin. After some great community emails, we're joined by developers Rami Ismail (Nuclear Throne), Alex Hutchinson (Assassin's Creed III, Far Cry 4), Ryan Payton (Metal Gear Solid 4, Republique), and Jake Kazdal (Space Channel 5, Galak-Z) to share their thoughts on Rockstar's Red Dead Redemption II.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen to episode 423 on SoundCloud, or download the MP3 by clicking here. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

4:09 - Andy McNamara on our new Blizzard cover story
8:02 - Overwatch's new hero Ashe
10:55 - World of Warcraft Classic
13:20 - Diablo Immortal
27:20 - Visiting Blizzard/Warcraft III's development
45:50 - From Software's Déraciné
50:20 - Taiko no Tatsujin
55:43 - Community emails
1:42:50 - http://butasa.duhbabywasthere.com/
1:50:55 - Developers react to Red Dead Redemption II (Rami Ismail, Alex Hutchinson, Ryan Payton, and Jake Kazdal)

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

Ben Hanson
Video Producer
Ben Hanson has been a video producer with Game Informer since 2010, he produces most of the cover story video content and hosts The Game Informer Show podcast.

Email
Twitter

