
  GI Show – Pokémon: Let's Go, Battlefield V, Spyro Reignited Interview






            On this game-packed episode of The Game Informer Show podcast, Ben Hanson is joined by Brian Shea, Andrew Reiner, and Kyle Hilliard to talk about Pokémon: Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee, the bizarre Detective Pikachu trailer, and work-in-progress impressions of Bethesda's Fallout 76. On this episode we also talk about the new remaster Spyro the Dragon, rave about Tetris Effect, take a detour for Hitman 2, and get Matt Bertz to talk about his time reviewing DICE's Battlefield V. After some really fun community emails, we're joined by Toys For Bob's producer Peter Kavic and art director Josh Nadelberg to walk us through the process of creating the Spyro The Dragon Reignited Trilogy.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen to episode 424 on SoundCloud, or download the MP3 by clicking here. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

2:55 -  Pokémon: Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee
16:15 - Detective Pikachu
21:45 - Fallout 76
26:30 - Spyro Reignited Trilogy
40:15 - Overkill's The Walking Dead
42:40 - Tetris Effect
59:45 - Hitman 2
1:18:20 - The Quiet Man
1:20:40 - Battlefield V
1:31:00 - Community emails
2:26:26 - Toys For Bob's Peter Kavic and Josh Nadelberg on creating the Spyro Reignited Trilogy

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

Ben Hanson
Video Producer
Ben Hanson has been a video producer with Game Informer since 2010, he produces most of the cover story video content and hosts The Game Informer Show podcast.

Email
Twitter

