
  GI Show – Hellblade, Drawn To Death, Yooka-Laylee Interview






London's calling or something on this week's spiritual successor-focused Game Informer Show. First up, we talk about our trip to Ninja Theory in Cambridge, England for an exclusive look at Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice that we cover in the latest issue of the magazine. After some discussion about comparisons to Heavenly Sword, we shift over to Brian Shea's thoughts on Playtonic's Yooka-Laylee and how it both succeeds and fails as a spiritual successor to Banjo-Kazooie. We also talk about Blaster Master Zero and Drawn to Death before some great community emails. The back half of this week's show is an interview with Yooka-Laylee's creative lead Gavin Price on the game's development and the interesting future for Playtonic's games.
You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, or listen to episode 342 on SoundCloud. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show and win a prize by becoming Email of the Week!
 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences
Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.
To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...
4:15 - Our impressions of Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice19:45 - Yooka-Laylee26:00 - Our reaction to the "Yooka-Laylee Rap"28:05 - Blaster Master Zero31:00 - Early impressions of Drawn to Death39:00 - Community emails1:29:50 - Playtonic's Gavin Price on Yooka-Laylee's development 

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

