
  GI Show: The Halo Spectacular






Every month we roll out exclusive content on our cover story and cap it all off with a special edition podcast where we collect questions from the community and volley them at the game's developers. To wrap up our month of content covering Halo 5: Guardians coinciding with our July cover story on the game, we wanted to go above and beyond our usual and make the entire podcast episode a Halo-themed celebration.

First up, podcast hosts Ben Hanson and Tim Turi are joined by Bryan Vore and Ben Reeves to talk about their cover story trip to play exclusive content from Halo 5: Guardians at 343 Industries. In the next segment we're joined by Josh Holmes and creative director Tim Longo from 343 Industries to answer burning questions from the community like the reasons for cutting split-screen support and whether or not we'll see an appearance from the Flood. For the final segment, we're joined by designer Jaime Griesemer and composer Marty O'Donnell from Highwire Games to give us a candid account of Halo's earliest struggles of development at Bungie, including surprising stories on the origins of the Halo theme and the over-powered pistol.

There's a lot of ground to cover in this Halo Spectacular, so watch the video below or subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

To jump to a particular segment of the podcast, check out the timestamps below...

2:25: Bryan and Ben's impressions of a section of Halo 5's campaign and the Warzone multiplayer mode
15:12 - 343's Josh Holmes and Tim Longo answer questions from the community
56:02 - Highwire Games' Jaime Griesemer and Marty O'Donnell talk about the early development of the Halo series

To learn more about Halo 5: Guardians, click on the banner below to enter our exclusive content-filled hub.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

