
  GI Show – Black Ops 4, New BioShock, GI Internships






Welcome back to The Game Informer Show! We're trying something a bit different on this week's podcast because there's a lot of interesting gaming news stories to break down. Ben Hanson is joined by Jeff Cork, Andrew Reiner, and Imran Khan to talk about Yakuza 6's release and what it's like to hunt Ewoks in Battlefront II before we break out a high-tech random-news generator to go through the rest. We cover the huge news of Call of Duty potentially removing the single-player component of Black Ops 4, PlayStation 5 rumors, and what we'd want from a rumored new BioShock game in development. After some great community emails, we're joined by Game Informer's outgoing interns Robbie Key, Joey Thurmond, and Jon Bowman to talk about their time in the office.

You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, or listen to episode 395 on SoundCloud. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show and win a prize by becoming Email of the Week!

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...

2:25 - Yakuza 6: The Song of Life
6:53 - Star Wars Battlefront 2 Ewok Hunt
10:45 - Ghost Recon's Splinter Cell crossover
15:10 - A New BioShock?
19:50 - Call of Duty: Black Ops 4's missing single-player campaign/battle royale mode
28:25 - Radical Heights
31:30 - PlayStation 5 rumors
37:50 - Dragon Quest XI on Nintendo Switch
40:40 - Spyro Reignited Trilogy
43:00 - Steamspy's demise
46:05 - Billy Mitchell's saga
50:40 - Community emails
1:42:00 - GI interns Jon Bowman, Joey Thurmond, and Robbie Key

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

Ben Hanson
Video Producer
Ben Hanson has been a video producer with Game Informer since 2010, he produces most of the cover story video content and hosts The Game Informer Show podcast.

Email
Twitter

