
  GI Show - Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare, Madden 20, Dan Carlin Interview






            Welcome back to The Game Informer Show! Thanks for joining us on this week's grand adventure through gaming. First up, we're talking about the changes to multiplayer in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare in conjunction with our new cover story on the game! Then we talk about some fighting games and Super Smash Bros.' new Dragon Quest DLC before diving into the wide world of sports with impressions from the NHL 20 beta and early thoughts on Madden 20. After some great community emails, we're joined by Dan Carlin (of Hardcore History fame) to talk about his upcoming VR installation all about World War 1 called War Remains.

You can watch the video above, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes or Google Play, listen on SoundCloud, stream it on Spotify, or download the MP3 at the bottom of the page. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show.

Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.

To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below.

3:15 - GI Game Club Announcement!
5:55 - Call of Duty: Modern Warfare
23:50 - Super Smash Bros. Dragon Quest DLC
34:30 - KILL la KILL -IF
37:00 - Fantasy Strike
41:25 - Monster Boy and the Cursed Kingdom
43:35 - Resident Evil 4
48:55 - NHL 20
1:02:35 - Madden 20
1:11:40 - Community emails
2:02:25 - Dan Carlin War Remains interview

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

October 25, 2019

Purchase
More Info

