
  GI Show – Destiny: Rise Of Iron Impressions, Batman, Gary Whitta Interview






Welcome to a new episode of The Game Informer Show! If you're not clamoring for new details on Destiny, we apologize. This week we revealed our new cover story featuring Destiny: Rise of Iron and we have a lot to talk about. I'm joined by Matt Miller (who wrote the cover story) and Ben Reeves to talk about our trip to Bungie to play through Destiny: Rise of Iron and what fans can expect from this year's expansion. After that, we hot-swap out Mr. Miller and replace him with Andrew Reiner to talk about Telltale Games' new episodic take on Batman and his review for the Xbox One S. After readkng through some great emails sent in to podcast@gameinformer.com, I then interview writer Gary Whitta about his time working with Telltale on The Walking Dead, writing Star Wars: Rogue One, and his favorite Star Wars games.
You can watch the video below, subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes, or listen to episode 310 on SoundCloud. Also, be sure to send your questions to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show and win a prize by becoming Email of the Week!
 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences
Our thanks to the talented Super Marcato Bros. for The Game Informer Show's intro song. You can hear more of their original tunes and awesome video game music podcast at their website.
To jump to a particular point in the discussion, check out the time stamps below...
2:25 - Our full impressions of Destiny: Rise of Iron56:55 - Batman: A Telltale Game Series1:05:40 - Hands-on impressions of the Xbox One S1:12:40 - Community emails1:32:45 - Interviewing writer Gary Whitta 

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

