
  A Newcomer’s Trek Through Final Fantasy XIV (Feat. Sarah Podzorski) | Game Informer Live






            I love Final Fantasy. I’ve played nearly every numbered entry and have beaten most of them. I adore Final Fantasy Tactics. I watched both terrible feature films. My ringtone is the FFVII victory fanfare theme. But the biggest hole in my fandom for years has been Final Fantasy XIV.

MMOs have never appealed to me, but as I listened to friends and colleagues rave about FFXIV over its long existence, the more I felt like I was missing out on something special. Every expansion and free trial had me hovering over the purchase button, but I always told myself I didn’t have the time to invest in such a behemoth of a game. The excuses have come to an end. 

I’ve finally broken the seal and dived headfirst into one of the most celebrated games on the planet. Join me on Twitch at 2 p.m. Central as I trek through my first dungeon with the help of two of the biggest FFXIV experts I know. First up is the returning Jon Woodey, Game Informer web programmer extraordinaire. I’ll also have a special guest: MinnMax cohort Sarah Podzorski joins our party to lend her bubbly brand of insight. Watch along to learn some valuable tips and tricks and, if you’re like me, get an early taste of FFXIV to see if it’s something you want to jump into as well!

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts!

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac

Release Date:

December 7, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

