
  Alone In The Dark Delayed To January






            The upcoming reimagining of Alone in the Dark is skipping Halloween this year. Instead of inviting players back to Derceto on October 25, the survival horror adventure will now arrive on January 16.

In a press release, developer Pieces Interactive offers a candid explanation for the move: it doesn’t want the game to compete with October’s heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man 2 and another big horror game, Alan Wake 2. 

“Our intention is to avoid competing with the wake of Alan's epic release and to evade the dazzling skyline of cities adorned by the graceful swings of Spider-Man," Pieces writes. "We aim to truly remain as Alone in the Dark as possible. To honor this, the spine-chilling horror game has been rescheduled to unveil its horrors on January 16th, 2024. This extension will serve a dual purpose: not only will it permit us to meticulously perfect the gaming experience, but it will also grant us the opportunity to fully immerse ourselves in the remarkable releases of October.”

The studio also released a new trailer starring David Harbour’s Edward Carnby, one of the game’s protagonists, showing off his performance and impressive facial capture. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Alone in the Dark is a modernized revamp of the 1992 survival horror classic that stars actors Jodie Comer and David Harbour as protagonists Emily Hartwood and detective Edward Carnby, respectively. Players control one character to explore the haunted Derceto hospital to solve a sinister mystery, with both scenarios offering different story threads and moments. You can read our full preview of the game here. It will be available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC.

      Products In This Article

Alone in the Dark (2024)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 20, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

