
                                          Anger Foot
                  				 Review


  An Adrenaline-Packed Foot Race




Reviewed on PC

Publisher
Devolver Digital

Developer
Free Lives

Release
July 11, 2024

            Anger Foot exemplifies a simple idea executed to the nth degree. As a furious sneakerhead possessing seemingly the deadliest legs in the world, you must retrieve your prized collection of stolen footwear by kicking everything in sight. The bombast accompanying this wacky premise – fast-paced, split-second action, satisfying gunplay, and delectable destructibility – turns Anger Foot from a one-kick pony into one of the year’s most exciting, challenging, and tough-to-put-down adrenaline rushes.

Taking place on the seedy streets of Crime City, where crime is not only encouraged but is a way of life, you’ll plow through four gangs and their leaders across dozens of levels to retrieve your pilfered sneakers. Initially, your bare foot is your best and only weapon, as kicking sends the litany of armed goons flying, showcasing the satisfying (and, sometimes, hilariously broken) ragdoll physics. This first-person action game's frantic yet thoughtful pace is delightfully reminiscent of Hotline Miami and Doom. At best, you can complete the small, densely packed stages in under a minute, and success means quickly and strategically taking out deviously placed foes before they can off you. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Since only one or two hits kill players, fast reaction timing and, for better or worse, trial-and-error win the day. Levels can border on being labyrinthine with enemies hiding in blind spots or lurking behind doors, and you won’t discover their presence until their bullet enters your skull. Some deaths feel cheap due to sometimes questionable enemy placement that makes taking damage seem unavoidable in spots. Other times, you're a victim of physics; a grenade that misses the first time may bounce off something and unexpectedly land at your feet the second time. Dying means starting the stage anew, and while that stings after a good run, instant respawns hasten the process of repeatedly running through levels and absorbing their layouts. 

Kicking foes feels great, but Anger Foot also encourages strategic use of the environment and your opponents, such as kicking doors into distant targets or sending exploding enemies careening into their allies. Wielding firearms, such as handguns and shotguns, plus more exotic fare like crossbows that impale multiple foes and flamethrowers, adds a complementary ranged aspect to the melee-focused action. Gunplay feels awesome, and you can even throw empty weapons to stun targets, providing perfect setups for a kick. I also enjoy how the various enemy types encourage me to change tactics on the fly, such as shield-bearing foes blocking gunfire or speedy, knife-wielding mice focusing on relentless swarming. The multi-stage boss fights are enjoyable (and absurd) but don’t compare to the thrill of blasting through the standard levels. 

When Anger Foot is firing on all cylinders, which is often, it’s a gleefully chaotic execution of skill and resourcefulness. I love slipping into the flow state of running into rooms, rapidly taking out adversaries, grabbing their guns, lobbing depleted firearms to stun other targets, and kicking everything in sight. A mindless approach can work, but more often, it pays to have an ideal order of operations for eliminating threats and pinpointing every environmental advantage. Copius destructibility means encounters often devolve into a parade of exploding rubble, splintered wood, and shattered glass that leaves rooms looking like a tornado plowed through them. This element can be advantageous; why pick off goons perched atop scaffolding when shooting an explosive barrel sends the entire structure tumbling down? Though the framerate occasionally dips when the action overindulges in explosions and enemy mobs, it runs smooth as butter otherwise. 

Anger Foot regularly introduces new ideas and mechanics to keep the gameplay and challenge fresh. Highlights include hopping across and dodging trains in a subway and kicking across rooftops while avoiding a sniper’s laser sight. I always looked forward to seeing what a level had in store and was often surprised and enthusiastic to tackle whatever obstacle developer Free Lives concocted. 

Completing stages and optional objectives, such as finishing it under a time limit or taking no damage, rewards up to three stars spent toward unlocking ability-granting sneakers. You can only wear one pair of these special shoes at a time, and they add fun wrinkles to the action. Some provide helpful perks, like a shoe that grants an extra life or one that causes doors to explode when kicked. Other shoes function like silly cheat codes, like a pair that reduces gravity, meaning everything, yourself included, floats. One useful shoe gives enemies comedically large heads, making them easier targets for headshots. Shoes can be potent game changers, providing a strong hook to replay stages and complete supplementary tasks to unlock them all. 

Defeat can be a bitter pill in Anger Foot, but I was amazed at how eager I remained to jump back in time after time. Firefights remained an exciting challenge even if I’d played it numerous times. Thwarting foes milliseconds before they pull the trigger, either by brute force or cleverly utilizing my surroundings, never ceased to feel cool. You should definitely walk a mile in these shoes.

9

About Game Informer's review system

      Products In This Article

Anger Foot

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

July 11, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

