
  Atlus Is Delisting The Original Shin Megami Tensei V And Its DLC Ahead Of Vengeance’s Launch






            Atlus has announced that the original version of Shin Megami Tensei V will be delisted from the Nintendo eShop on June 13. That’s one day before the launch of its expanded definitive edition, Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance.

On June 13, Shin Megami Tensei V’s Digital Standard and Digital Deluxe editions and all of its DLC will be removed from the eShop. However, owners of the physical and digital versions will still be able to play and redownload this content after it’s been delisted. SMT V first launched in November 2021, and Atlus declared it the best-selling game in the series in January 2022.

The original Shin Megami Tensei V Digital Standard, Digital Deluxe, and all associated DLC will be delisted from the Nintendo eShop on June 13.

Previously purchased physical and digital versions will remain playable and re-downloadable after this date.
— Official ATLUS West (@Atlus_West) May 13, 2024

Atlus has not provided a reason for this move, but given the timing, it’s likely to avoid confusion with the upcoming SMTV: Vengeance, which is the same game (including all DLC) but with quality-of-life improvements and an additional storyline that introduces new locations and demons. Think of it as the Persona 5 Royal of SMT V. Vengeance will also be multi-platform, whereas the original game was a Switch exclusive, and it will run for the same price as the original Standard version, $59.99.

Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance launches on June 14. You can read our extended preview of the game here, and you can also check out our review of the original SMT V here.

      Products In This Article

Shin Megami Tensei V

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

November 12, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 14, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

