
  Balatro Sells 1 Million Copies In First Month, Mobile Version On The Way






            Balatro, the hit poker-inspired roguelike deckbuilder, has hit 1 million sales within its first month of release. Publisher Playstack also revealed a mobile version is in development.

Created by solo developer LocalThunk, Balatro is a roguelike tasking players to play poker hands to fulfill score criteria and advance a series of rounds. Along the way, they’ll spend money to augment their deck with new cards with special effects while collecting powerful Jokers that bestow a wide range of passive and trigger abilities.  

The game has earned widespread acclaim and popularity since launching on February 20. I awarded it a 9.5 out of 10, writing in my review, “Balatro is an ingenious and entertaining roguelike and one of my favorite games of the year. Playing it has become a near-obsession; everything feels perfectly designed to encourage you to keep trying because that next run could be the run of your life. Even after hours of play, I still can’t overcome Balatro’s biggest challenge: putting it down.”

In a press release announcing the 1 million milestone, LocalThunk writes, 

“I'm so grateful to all the players and people that have made this happen. I still can't grasp the response to this game, and I am overjoyed that so many people have been able to have fun with my silly creation. I'm so fortunate that I can continue working on my passion as a career. Thank you!”

Balatro is currently available for PlayStation, Xbox, Switch, and PC. There’s no release window for the impending mobile versions.

      Products In This Article

Balatro

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

February 20, 2024 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), TBA (iOS, Android)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

