
  Celebrating 700 Episodes By Answering Your Questions! | GI Show






            It's a big milestone this week as we're celebrating 700 episodes of The Game Informer Show! Since Episode 1 aired all the way back in 2009, we've recorded and produced hundreds of episodes and we couldn't have done it without your support, which is why this week's edition is all about you, our wonderful listeners!

Join host Marcus Stewart along with Kyle Hilliard and Charles Harte as they answer a slew of fascinating, humorous, and outright strange questions from the GI community while reflecting on their thoughts on the show and podcasting in general. Before all of that, however, GI editor-in-chief Matt Miller opens the episode to talk about our revamped magazine subscription program, which you can learn all about here. 

Watch The Game Informer Show Podcast!

Follow us on social media: Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Charles Harte (@chuckduck365)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Announcement
00:17:30 - Intro
00:22:27 - Reflecting On The GI Show
00:28:11 - Listener Questions
02:01:03 - Housekeeping
02:05:23 - The Lunch Break: Like A Dance Break but with Lunch (Working Title)

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

