
  Check Out Final Fantasy 14: Dawntrail’s New Job, Race, And Full-Length Cinematic Trailer






            Over the weekend, Square Enix revealed new information about Dawntrail, Final Fantasy XIV’s upcoming fifth expansion, during a fan event for the popular MMO. In addition to unveiling a lengthy cinematic trailer, fans got a look at one of the game’s two new jobs and its new playable race.

Meet the Pictomancer, a new class described as a “magical ranged DPS job that works in the medium of mixed aether, wielding a specialized brush to render their imaginings reality.” Basically, the Pictomancer is a painter wielding a giant magical brush that conjures spells using paint. Check it out in action in the trailer below:

A new cat-like race called the Hrothgar was also revealed in the form of a female variant. The trailer below provides a glimpse of the race out in the wild.

Lastly, the big video is a 5+ minute cinematic trailer showing off Dawntrail’s vibrant tropical setting, tone, and plenty of beautifully rendered action. 

Last year, Square Enix announced that Final Fantasy XIV is finally coming to Xbox Series X/S this spring. During the event, the studio revealed that an open beta test of the Xbox version begins sometime in February, giving players their first taste of the game before its arrival.

Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail is slated to launch later this summer. For more info, check out this primer breaking down everything you need to know about the expansion. 

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

July 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC

Release Date:

August 27, 2013 (PlayStation 3, PC), April 14, 2014 (PlayStation 4), May 25, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

