
  Cover Reveal – No Rest For The Wicked






            Moon Studios cemented itself as a premier upstart studio thanks to its stellar work on Ori and the Blind Forest and Ori and the Will of the Wisps. The team is parlaying that success and experience to craft a dramatically different project it's been dreaming about for years: No Rest for the Wicked. This dark fantasy action RPG combines influences from a variety of genres, from ARPGs like Diablo to the difficulty and thoughtful combat of Dark Souls, to the town-building of Animal Crossing, and more.

We traveled to Vienna, Austria, to visit the home (and Moon's de facto headquarters) of co-founder Thomas Mahler. Joined by Moon's other co-founder and CEO, Gennadiy Korol, we went hands-on with No Rest for the Wicked and filled 12 pages with our impressions and exclusive details about the game's town-building and social features, endgame content, and early access roadmap. We also picked the brains of the two figureheads to learn how the project game to be, what to expect, as well as background on Moon's history.

Here's a closer look at this month's cover.

Issue 364 also includes other great features, such as an eight-page deep-dive on the video game history of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. 2024 marks the 50th anniversary of Dungeons & Dragons, so we have a retrospective of the role-playing game's colossal influence on the game industry as told by developers. With the well-received launch of Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth, we caught up with Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio head Masayoshi Yokoyama to discuss the game's themes, the growing international success of the Like a Dragon franchise, and what comes next. The issue also includes previews for upcoming titles like Indiana Jones and the Great Circle, Silent Hill 2, Death Stranding 2: On the Beach, and more.

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, BlueSky, and Threads accounts and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches on March 5 for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

No Rest for the Wicked

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

April 18, 2024 (PC), TBA (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

