
  Cover Reveal – Avatar: Frontiers Of Pandora






            Massive Entertainment is best known as the team behind Tom Clancy’s The Division, but it’s tackling a different beast in Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora. This open-world action game unfolds in a new section of James Cameron’s wildly successful Avatar universe, and this new chapter in the mythos graces Game Informer’s cover this month. 

Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora – Exclusive Coverage Trailer

We visited Massive’s studio in Malmö, Sweden, to play a couple of hours of the game set in the Kinglor Forest, one of Frontier’s three regions. Our 12-page story also includes an exclusive breakdown of the game’s other two regions, the Upper Plains and the Clouded Forest, which we got to tour during our visit. We interviewed the game’s key design leads to learn how Frontiers of Pandora came to be, what it was like working with James Cameron’s production studio Lightstorm, and get answers to some of the burning questions surrounding the game. Be sure to also visit our coverage hub by clicking the banner below as we'll have exclusive online features and videos throughout the month. 

Our cover art features the game’s customizable protagonist alongside their ikran taking the fight to the RDA. 

The Game Informer Gold cover features the same cover image with “Game Informer” in flashy, metallic gold. Each Gold issue is numbered, too, making it even more special for collectors.

Issue 361 is chock full of exciting features. With the 10th anniversary of indie hit Papers, Please, Luis Aguasviva writes a retrospective on the game’s impact, including reflections from designer Lucas Pope on its increased relevance a decade later. Grant Stoner shines a light on accessibility in the fighting game scene. Shannon Liao details the beneficial and detrimental impact of the growing influence of AI on game development. Wesley LeBlanc provides a detailed recap of the now-completed Microsoft/Activision Blizzard acquisition. And, of course, we have our annual holiday buyer’s guide as December looms ever closer. 

Previews include detailed looks at Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail, Banishers: Ghosts of New Eden, Frostpunk 2, and Crimson Desert. Plus, you can read reviews for Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Sonic Superstars, Jusant, Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, and more!

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, BlueSky, and Threads accounts and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

December 7, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

