
  Cover Reveal – Resident Evil 4






            In 2005, Resident Evil 4 changed the face of survival horror. The game’s phenomenal blend of action and horror combined with its revolutionary over-the-shoulder gameplay cemented it as a bonafide classic, a magic Capcom hopes to recapture with a modernized remake. That reinvention graces Game Informer’s cover this month. 

We visited Capcom’s headquarters in Osaka, Japan, to play Chapters One and Five of Resident Evil and speak to its principal designers, including directors Yasuhiro Ampo and Kazunori Kadoi, who previously led the Resident Evil 2 remake. You’ll read 12 pages sharing new details on the opening section, breakdowns of Ashley’s gameplay and other new tweaks, plus impressions of the church, cemetery, and house battle segments.

Click image to enlarge

Issue 353 is also our 2022 Game of the Year issue! This massive spread reflects on the last year in games, featuring Top 10 lists from both the staff and our readers, our individual category awards, editor picks highlighting exceptional titles that didn’t crack the top 10, as well as the staff’s personal top 10 lists. On top of that, we have a great feature detailing the localization process of MMORPGs and previews for anticipated titles such as Death Stranding 2, Armored Core VI, and Hades II. 

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. To subscribe to either the digital or print version, click here. Be sure to keep an eye on our coverage hub for online features over the coming weeks by clicking the banner below. 

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 4 (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

March 24, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), December 20, 2023 (Mac, iOS), December 8, 2023 (PlayStation VR2)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

