
  Cover Reveal – The Casting Of Frank Stone






            Dead by Daylight (DBD) has been one of the most popular multiplayer games (and horror titles in general) since its launch in 2016, but fans have dreamed of experiencing its universe in a single-player format. Developer Behaviour Interactive agreed and enlisted the cinematic storytelling expertise of Supermassive Games (Until Dawn, The Dark Pictures Anthology, The Quarry) to create an original story in the DBD universe. That game became The Casting of Frank Stone, and it terrorizes Game Informer’s cover this month.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

We traveled to Behaviour’s studio in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to play an early slice of the game and speak to lead developers from both studios to learn how the collaboration came to be. The story also reveals some of the DBD-style mechanics remixing Supermassive’s traditional gameplay template and also provides exclusive details on the game’s filmmaking mechanic.

Check out the cover art below, which was executed by Behavior’s senior concept artist Maïlys Garcia. 

In addition to the cover story, issue #368 also features a six-page Dead by Daylight retrospective. Writer Alex Van Aken interviewed two of the game’s principal creators to learn the history of the DBD’s development and its future, including exclusive details of its upcoming Castlevania crossover.

But wait, there’s more! Contributor Pao Yumol spoke to the creator of Vampire Survivors to learn the story behind the game’s creation and its surprising success. Editor Charles Harte wrote a six-page preview for Visions of Mana, including insights from its principal creators. With Devolver Digital celebrating its 15th anniversary this year, Brian Shea spoke to its founders to learn how the company grew from a small renegade startup to an indie publishing behemoth. The issue also includes previews for upcoming titles such as Lego Horizon Adventures, Metroid Prime 4: Beyond, The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom, Persona 3 Reload’s Episode Aigis – The Answer, and more!

Not a print subscriber yet but want this issue? Well, you're in luck! Subscribing today – or within the next few days – will net you a print copy of this issue! You can join the ranks of the Game Informer print subscribers through our new standalone print subscription! Just head here to sign up for either one or two years at a fraction of the cost of buying the issues individually! You can even gift a print subscription to your favorite gamer!

SUBSCRIBE TO THE PRINT MAGAZINE

You can also try to nab a Game Informer Gold version of the issue. Limited to a numbered print run per issue, this premium version of Game Informer isn't available for sale. To learn about places where you might be able to get a copy, check out our official Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, BlueSky, and Threads accounts and stay tuned for more details in the coming weeks. Click here to read more about Game Informer Gold.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to arrive in the coming weeks. The digital edition launches later this afternoon for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. Individual print copies will be available for purchase in the coming weeks at GameStop.

      Products In This Article

The Casting of Frank Stone

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 3, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

