
  Dead By Deadlight Gets Lara Croft Survivor Today, 2v8 Mode And Cross Progression On The Way






            Dead by Daylight’s 8th-anniversary stream revealed a few big updates for the popular asymmetrical horror game. The most immediate is the addition of Lara Croft as the game’s latest crossover survivor along with the impending addition of the much-requested 2v8 mode. 

Tomb Raider Chapter

Lara Croft (the 2013 reboot version, specifically) joins DBD today, and though she lacks her pistols and bow, she sports three new perks highlighting her adventuring prowess. Here's an explanation of each per DBD's website:

Finesse: Your fast vaults are faster when healthy, with a cooldown after a successful use.
Hardened: When you open a Chest and cleanse or bless a Totem, Hardened activates for the duration of the Trial. From that point, every time you scream, you’ll instead reveal the Killer’s Aura.
Specialist: When you open or rummage through a Chest, gain 1 Token (up to 3). When you do a Great Skill Check, consume a Token to reduce the max required Generator progress.
 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

2v8 Mode

On July 25, a new 2v8 multiplayer mode descends into the game. This pits two Killers against eight survivors in expanded versions of five classic maps. The number of generators has been doubled, and Survivors must now repair 8 out of 13 to escape. Captive Survivors are now sent directly into cages, and Survivor perks have been reworked into a new role system designed to encourage teamwork. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Cross-Progression

Cross-progression is being implemented on July 22. This means players can now sync their progress across multiple owned versions of the game. Everything can be shared across any platform except for Switch, which has a few restrictions as you can see in the chart below. 

Click to enlarge

Today’s stream also revealed a new trailer and the release date for The Casting of Frank Stone, the single-player DBD game developed by Supermassive Games (Until Dawn, The Quarry). You can read all about that here.

      Products In This Article

Dead by Daylight

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

June 14, 2016 (PC), June 20, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), September 24, 2019 (Switch), April 16, 2020 (iOS, Android), October 1, 2020 (Stadia), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

