
  Death's Door Flocks To PlayStation And Switch Next Month






            Death’s Door is one of the best indies of the year (and games period) but only Xbox and PC players have enjoyed it. That changes next month when the charming action game migrates to PlayStation consoles and Switch.

This charming adventure puts you in control of a crow who serves as a soul-reaper for a bureaucratic organization of crows. They govern all things death, but when your assigned soul gets stolen, the adventure pits you at odds against characters who have managed to cheat death for centuries.

Gameplay consists of top down action where you cut through waves of challenging enemies and over-the-top bosses using a small arsenal of weapons. Outside of battle, you’ll explore dungeons across varied biomes connected by a secret-laden overworld. I scored Death's Door a 9 out of 10 review and wrote that it “marries fine-tuned hack n' slash action with a cool world ripe with secrets to unravel. The result is an entertaining, densely-packed trip to the other side.”

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Look for Death’s Door to hit PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, and Switch on November 23. As a cool bonus, those who pre-order get Titan Souls, developer Acid Nerve’s previous title, for free.

For more on Death’s Door, check out our Afterwords interview with the game’s creators at Acid Nerve.

      Products In This Article

Death's Door

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 20, 2021 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC), November 23, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

