
  Deliver Us Mars Developer Keoken Interactive Lays Off Nearly Entire Staff






            Keoken Interactive, developer of Deliver Us The Moon and Deliver Us Mars, has laid off nearly its entire staff. The studio’s two founders are the only remaining employees.

Founders Keon Deetman (CEO) and Paul Deetman (managing director) announced on social media that after the studio failed to secure funding during the Game Developer’s Conference (GDC) in March, it had “exhausted all our possible options for publishing, work for hire, and co-development.” As a result, the remainder of its staff has been let go. GameIndustry.biz confirmed that 13 employees were affected, 11 of which were full-time and 2 freelance contractors. 

The Deetmans have made a call for any studios with open positions to hire its affected staff. The founders plan to stay in business and have vowed to rebuild, which includes launching a Kickstarter to crowdfund Deliver Us Home,  a sequel to Deliver Us Mars. 

It was clear Keoken was in trouble when the founders posted a video in March revealing it had been unable to land a publishing deal after spending two years pitching five games to over 40 publishers. Instead, the founders decided to publicly reveal these projects to help garner interest, one of which was Deliver Us Home and two were Deliver Us The Moon spin-offs, including a VR game. 

Keoken once employed 45 employees, but the headcount was reduced to 20 by March 2024 before four more employees were let go that month. In an interview with GameIndustry.biz, the Deetmans revealed they had gone months without collecting a salary to help stay afloat. 

      Products In This Article

Deliver Us The Moon

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 10, 2019 (PC), April 24, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), June 23, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S), 2024 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Deliver Us Mars

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

