
  Destiny 2: The Final Shape Delayed To June






            Following the round of layoffs that recently hit Bungie, it had been reported that Destiny 2’s next big expansion, The Final Shape, had been internally delayed to the summer. Bungie has now confirmed that to be the case.

Originally slated to launch on February 27, The Final Shape now launches on June 4. In a blog post, Bungie states that the expansion “needs more time to become exactly what we want it to be”.

“The Final Shape is the culmination of the first ten years of Destiny storytelling and, for Guardians everywhere, countless hours spent together,” Bungie writes in the post. “We want to honor that journey, so we’re taking the time we need to deliver an even bigger and bolder vision, one that we hope will be remembered and treasured for years to come.”

The delay has caused some changes to the content roadmap. Destiny 2’s Season of the Wish begins tomorrow and runs until The Final Shape launches. Guardian Games has been bumped up to March, with Bungie stating it will have a “refreshed focus on class vs. class competition.” Three new PvP maps are slated to arrive in May. 

Lastly, the studio announced Destiny 2: Into the Light, a two-month content update that arrives in April. The post doesn’t provide much details other than stating it will “prepare players for their Guardian’s journey into the Traveler.”

Destiny 2: The Final Shape was revealed in August and is billed as the conclusion of Destiny’s primary storyline that began when the first game launched in 2014. About a month ago, the team laid off over 100 employees, reportedly due to decreased Destiny 2 player engagement and underwhelming pre-orders for The Final Shape as player sentiment reached an all-time low. 

Bloomberg initially reported on the rumored delay of The Final Shape while also stating that Bungie's upcoming extraction shooter Marathon had been pushed to 2025. Marthon's delay has not been officially confirmed by Bungie (nor did it have a release window to begin with), but today's confirmation of The Final Shape's delay certainly adds weight to Bloomberg's report. 

      Products In This Article

Destiny 2: The Final Shape

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

June 4, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

