
  Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed Paints A September Launch Date, Collector's Edition Revealed






            Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed, the remake of 2010’s Epic Mickey, has a release date. Look for it to arrive on September 24.

The game was first revealed during a Nintendo Partner Direct in February. The remake is being handled by developer Purple Lamp and features reworked gameplay (the original was played with Wii motion controls, after all), new brush abilities for Mickey, and a graphical upgrade. A new trailer features a chat with the game's original creative director Warren Spector, who is also involved with this remake, to reveal Rebrushed's Collector's Edition.

For $199.99, this special box is available for pre-order now and includes the following items:

The full game Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed
A 28 cm Mickey Mouse statue
An Oswald the Lucky Rabbit keychain
A vintage Mickey Mouse tin sign
Six Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed postcards
A Collector’s Steelbook
The Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed costume pack

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you missed the original game, it sees Mickey explore a fantasy world called the Wasteland filled with obscure Disney characters, namely antagonist Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, Disney's original animation star who predates Mickey Mouse. The Wasteland has been taken over by an entity called the Blot, which Mickey accidentally unleashed and must now stop. The 3D action platformer sees Mickey wielding a magic paintbrush that can create new objects while erasing others, and Mickey's actions shape his destiny and the game's story. 

Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed will be available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC. You can read our review of the original Epic Mickey here. 

      Products In This Article

Disney Epic Mickey: Rebrushed

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 24, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

