
  Don’t Nod’s Harmony: The Fall Of Reverie Arrives In June, Steam Demo Launches Today






            Don’t Nod, makers of Life is Strange and Tell Me Why, has announced that its next title, Harmony: The Fall of Reverie, is coming this June and will get a playable demo this month. 

Steam and Switch players can pick up the game on June 8, whereas PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S owners have to wait until June 22. Harmony: The Fall of Reverie is a choice-driven adventure starring Polly, a woman who returns home to find her missing mother. It's here Polly discovers she has clairvoyant abilities connecting her to a strange dimension called Reverie. While visiting this world, Polly becomes Harmony and encounters six powerful god-like beings called Aspirations, which serve as the hearts of humanity such as Glory, Power, Chaos, Bliss, and Truth. 

Sorry, this video is not available

Polly must restore the balance between Reverie and our world and decide which Aspiration ultimately inspires humanity by making decisions represented by a system called the Augural. This web presents a multitude of scenes players will jump between that reveal possible futures that, in turn, unlock additional story branches. Polly does this by collecting crystals given to her with each choice and character bond she makes, which are used to unlock nodes on the Augural that alter the course of the story. 

Harmony: The Fall of Reverie sports a vibrantly illustrated art direction and a soundtrack by award-winning composer Lena Raine. You can try it out early thanks to a limited-time Steam demo launching today that will be available until May 21.

For more on Don't Nod, check out its other new title, Banishers: Ghosts of a New Eden, which also launches later this year. 

      Products In This Article

Harmony: The Fall of Reverie

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 8, 2023 (Switch, PC), June 22, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

