
  Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero Trailer Reveals Fusion Fighters And Teases Summer Game Fest Announcement






            Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero’s latest trailer has unveiled fusion warriors for its roster. It also seems to tease another announcement on the horizon.

The trailer reveals the additions of Gotenks (the fusion of Goten and Trunks), Kefla (the fusion of Caulifla and Kale), Fused Zamasu, and Goku and Vegeta’s fusions, Vegito and Gogeta. Watch them trade blows in the trailer below: 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Since each fusion includes the fighters that make them up and their various transformations, the full list of characters joining the roster amounts to 21. Check them out below. 

Trunks (Kid)
Trunks (Kid), Super Saiyan
Goten
Goten, Super Saiyan
Caulifla
Caulifla, Super Saiyan 2
Kale
Kale, Super Saiyan
Gotenks
Gotenks, Super Saiyan
Gotenks, Super Saiyan 3
Kefla
Kefla, Super Saiyan
Kefla, Super Saiyan 2
Vegito
Vegito, Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan
Gogeta (Super)
Gogeta (Super), Super Saiyan
Gogeta (Super), Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan
Fused Zamasu
Fused Zamasu, Half-Corrupted

The trailer ends with a message serving as a classic callback to the anime that states, “Next time on Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero: Summer Game Fest 2024.” Could we be getting a release date at Geoff Keighley’s showcase? Given that the game was revealed during another Keighley show, The Game Awards 2023, it wouldn’t be surprising.

Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero is the next entry in what’s known in the West as the Budokai Tenkaichi series (Sparking is the franchise's original Japanese name). The roster is only halfway revealed, but we’ve already seen a number of confirmed fighters from Dragon Ball Z and Dragon Ball Super, including multiple versions of the same characters. The game has no release window but is coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. You can learn more about the game's new mechanics and features here. 

      Products In This Article

Dragon Ball: Sparking! Zero

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

