
  Dragon Age: Dreadwolf Teaser Announces Full Reveal Next Summer






            Dragon Age: Dreadwolf has been a long time coming, and a new teaser trailer – arriving on Dragon Age Day, appropriately – provides a glimpse of its continent, Thedas, while also announcing when Bioware will properly reveal the game. 

The trailer provides a cinematic flyby of Thedas’ map and a few scenic shots of locales as out-of-context musings from several characters set the tone. It wraps up with a message announcing a full reveal coming next summer. 

It’s a bittersweet announcement. It’s good to know when we’ll finally see what Dreadwolf actually is. We're just bummed to get a teaser for a trailer that's months away. There’s always the chance Dreadwolf launches a few months after its grand debut (it’s happened before with several other big games), though the game was announced as being in the middle of full production last year, and with Bioware’s recent restructuring resulting in layoffs, a 2024 launch may be optimistic. 

Although Dragon Age: Dreadwolf has been in development in some form since at least 2015, its first big teaser took place at The Game Awards in 2018. However, it didn’t get its proper title until last year. Dreadwolf has gone through the wringer in terms of development shake-ups, from high-profile departures at Bioware, including Casey Hudson (again), to EA reworking it from a live-service model to a more single-player-focused experience following Anthem’s failure. 

We still know very little about what Dreadwolf entails other than it takes place in Tevinter and will feature Solas (the titular Dread Wolf) and new characters Bellara and Davrin, whom we know nothing about as of yet. Here's hoping Bioware rolls out the carpet for the game in a big way next year after fans have waited so long to see what's next in the Dragon Age mythos. 

      Products In This Article

Dragon Age: Dreadwolf

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

