
  Embracer Shuts Down Developer Of The New Alone In The Dark






            Embracer has shut down Pieces Interactive, the developer of the Alone in the Dark reimagining that arrived earlier this year. The studio is the latest to be closed by the troubled company over the last 10 months. 

Pieces Interactive’s website now only features a graphic listing “2007-2024 Thanks For Playing With Us” and a short blurb detailing its history: 

Pieces Interactive released over ten titles on PC, Console and Mobile since 2007, both our own concepts such as Puzzlegeddon, Fret Nice, Leviathan Warships, Robo Surf and Kill to Collect, as well as work for hire titles such as Magicka 2 and several DLCs for Magicka. Our client list includes Paradox Interactive, Koei Tecmo, Arrowhead Game Studios, Koch Media and RaceRoom Entertainment.

In 2017, Pieces Interactive were acquired by Embracer Group after working with the expansion for Titan Quest, Titan Quest: Ragnarök and third expansion for Titan Quest, Titan Quest: Atlantis.

Our last release was the reimagening of Alone in the Dark.

Alone in the Dark launched on March 20 to mixed reviews, currently sitting at a 63 on Metacritic. The game stars actors Jodie Comer and David Harbour, who lent their voices and likenesses, in a third-person reimagining of the 1992 survival horror classic. 

Following the collapse of a $2 billion deal with the Saudi Arabia-backed Savvy Games Group in 2023, Embracer has undergone a massive restructuring to stay afloat, resulting in a significant reduction of headcount across its many studios. That has included laying off over 1,000 employees (including those at Eidos-Montreal), selling off its studios (Saber Interactive, Gearbox Entertainment), and outright closing others (Free Radical Design, Volition Games). Embracer has most recently split itself into three separate companies, with its studios divided among them. 

      Products In This Article

Alone in the Dark (2024)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 20, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

