
  Ender Lilies Sequel Ender Magnolia: Bloom of the Mist Enters Early Access Next Month






            During last week’s Nintendo Direct: Partner Showcase, it was revealed that the 2021 action Metroidvania Ender Lilies: Quietus of the Knight is getting a sequel in the form of Ender Magnolia: Bloom of the Mist. The initial trailer provided a vague 2024 launch window, but we now know it's hitting Steam Early Access first on March 26. 

Ender Magnolia: Bloom in the Mist is set within the same universe as Ender Lilies but takes place in the magically saturated Land of Fumes. A mind-warping toxin has been unleashed from the magic-infused soil and dangerous Homunguli ravages the land. It’s up to protagonist Lilac, an “Attunder” capable of cleansing Homunguli, to save the day. You can check out the game's new trailer below.

Like Ender Lilies, Ender Magnolia is a dark fantasy Metroidvania in which Lilac is paired with another entity who actually handles the killing: a Spirit Reaper capable of killing Homunguli, which, in turn, adds their abilities to your arsenal. The sprawling 2D adventure tasks players with discovering hidden collectibles, gear, and items to bolster their ability to tackle a variety of bosses.

While it’s unknown exactly how long Ender Magnolia will be in Early Access, Ender Lilies also went through an Early Access phase that wound up working to the game's benefit. Ender Magnolia: Bloom in the Mist is slated to launch for PlayStation and Xbox platforms as well as Switch later this year. In the meantime, you can read our positive review of the Ender Lilies: Quietus of the Knight here.

      Products In This Article

Ender Magnolia: Bloom in the Mist

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Switch, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

