
  Every Winner From The Game Awards 2020






            Against all odds, The Game Awards went off without a hitch, and that means a lot of folks now have shiny new trophies to hold on to. Who walked away with the silver winged statues? In case you missed the show, here's a full recap of all of the winners.

The Last of Us Part II wound up being the game of the show, capturing the coveted Game of the Year trophy and beating out worthy contenders in Hades, Ghost of Tsushima, Animal Crossing: New Horizons, Doom Eternal, and Final Fantasy VII Remake. Naughty Dog’s acclaimed (and controversial) sequel cleaned up big, scooping up Best Game Direction, Best Action/Adventure, Best Narrative, and the Innovation in Accessibility award. Voice actress Laura Bailey also won Best Performance for her portrayal of Abby.

That doesn’t mean other titles didn’t earn some shine. Hades picked up Best Indie Game while Among Us (complete with teary-eyed developers) snagged Best Multiplayer and Best Mobile Game. Best Role-Playing and Best Score and Music went to Final Fantasy VII Remake, and Ghost of Tsushima walked away with Best Art Direction. No Man’s Sky’s Best Ongoing Games win might have been the upset of the show, beating out heavyweights like Fortnite and Apex Legends. 

You can check out the full list of winners below: 

Game of the Year

The Last of Us Part II (Naughty Dog/SIE)

Best Game Direction

The Last of Us Part II (Naughty Dog/SIE)

Best Narrative

The Last of Us Part II (Neil Druckmann, Halley Gross)

Best Art Direction

Ghost of Tsushima (Sucker Punch/SIE) 

Best Score and Music

Final Fantasy VII Remake (Nobuo Uematsu, Masahi Hamauzu, Mitsuto Suzuki)

Best Audio Design

The Last of Us Part II (Naughty Dog/SIE)

Best Performance

Laura Bailey as Abby, The Last of Us Part II

Games for Impact

Tell Me Why (Dontnod Entertainment/Xbox Game Studios) 

Player’s Choice 

Ghost of Tsushima (Sucker Punch/SIE)

Best Ongoing

No Man’s Sky (Hello Games)

Best Indie

Hades (Supergiant Games)

Best Mobile

Among Us (InnerSloth)

Best Community Support

Fall Guys: Ultimate Knockout (Mediatonic/Devolver) 

Innovation in Accessibility

The Last of Us Part II (Naughty Dog/SIE) 

Best VR/AR

Half-Life: Alyx (Valve)

Best Action

Hades (Supergiant Games) 

Best Action/Adventure

The Last of Us Part II (Naughty Dog/SIE) 

Best Role Playing

Final Fantasy VII Remake (Square Enix) 

Best Fighting

Mortal Kombat 11: Ultimate (NetherRealm Studios/WB Games) 

Best Family

Animal Crossings: New Horizon (Nintendo)

Best Sim/Strategy

Microsoft Flight Simulator (Asobo/Xbox Game Studios)

Best Sports/Racing

Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 1+2 (Vicarious Visions/Activision) 

Best Multiplayer

Among Us (InnerSloth)

Best Debut Game

Phasmophobia (Kinetic Games) 

Content Creator of the Year

Valkyrae

Best Esports Game

League of Legends (Riot Games)

Best Esports Athlete

Heo “Showmaker” Su / League of Legends

Best Esports Team

G2 Esports / League of Legends

Best Esports Event 

League of Legends World Championship 2020

Best Esports Host 

Eefje “Sjokz” Depoortere

Best Esports Coach

Danny “Zonic” Sørensen 

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

