
  Final Fantasy XIV 10-Year Plan Includes Graphical Update And Expanded Solo Play






            Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn famously arose from the ashes of its ill-fated first iteration in 2014. Since then, the MMO has exploded in popularity thanks to several well-received expansions, including its latest, Endwalker. If you somehow thought Square would be slowing down after eight years, you’d be grossly mistaken. During its recent Letter from the Producer Live presentation, the publisher discussed its plans to support the game for the next decade.

It all starts with Patch 6.1, which hits the game in April. It will expand the game’s Trust System, the feature that lets players experience certain main scenario dungeons with NPC allies (thus eliminating the need to group up with real players), to apply to all main dungeons in A Realm Reborn specifically. That means those who want to adventure alone will have more opportunities to do so. Square states that this will apply to even more dungeons later.

Square also confirmed that the game’s first graphical update is currently in the works. These improvements include higher-resolution textures, better lighting/shadow effects, and improved material qualities. Square aims to release this graphical facelift alongside the next expansion pack.

Free trial registration has also reopened after Square temporarily suspended it to ease server congestion during Endwalker's launch period. This has also been expanded to include all content from A Realm Reborn and Heavensward. The free trial also grants access to the Au Ra race and three additional jobs: Dark Knight, Astrologian, and Machinist.  

Lastly, Square rolled out a partial roadmap of new content arriving in upcoming patches. The publisher emphasized that there’s plenty of unannounced content still to come, so don’t take this list as the be-all-end-all of Final Fantasy XIV support. 

Patch 6.1 Series

New Main Scenario Questline – Patch 6.1 - 6.5
“Somehow Further Hildibrand Adventures” – Patch 6.1 – 6.5
“Tataru’s Grand Endeavor” Sidequest Series – Patch 6.1 – 6.5
Myths of the Realm #1 (Alliance Raid)
Crystalline Conflict (New PvP)
Arkasodara Tribe Quests and Dailies
Dragonsong’s Reprise (New Ultimate Duty)
Ultima’s Bane (Unreal)
Trust Support for A Realm Reborn (Patch 2.0) Main Scenario Dungeons
New Calling Card-Style UI (Name TBD)
New Hairstyles for Hrothgar
Empyreum (Ishgard Housing)
Custom Deliveries: Ameliance
Plus, New Trials and other assorted updates…

 Patch 6.2 Series

Trust Support for A Realm Reborn 2.X Main Scenario Dungeons
Trust Support for 2-3 Heavensward™ Main Scenario Dungeons
New Weapon Enhancements
New "Criterion" Dungeon with Variable Difficulty (for 1–4 Players)
"Island Sanctuary" Debuts
Plus Pandæmonium, Faux Hollows, Other Trials, and more…

Patch 6.3 Series

Trust system for Remaining Heavensward Main Scenario Dungeons
Deep Dungeon Series #3
Ultimate Duty #5
Island Sanctuary Updates
Plus Myths of the Realm, Faux Hollows, Other Trials, and more…

 Patch 6.4 and Patch 6.5 Series

Trust system for Stormblood™ Main Scenario Dungeons
“Criterion” Dungeons #2 & #3
Additional Area for Island Sanctuary
Plus the Conclusion to Pandæmonium, Further Myths of the Realm, Faux Hollows, Other Trials, and more…
More Plans for Patches 6.4 and 6.5 are being made as we speak!

This should be welcomed news for Final Fantasy XIV players old and new, as the Endwalker expansion has gotten fans excited for the future of the MMO more than ever before. To learn more about Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker, be sure to check out our review.

      Products In This Article

Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC

Release Date:

August 27, 2013 (PlayStation 3, PC), April 14, 2014 (PlayStation 4), May 25, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: Endwalker

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac

Release Date:

December 7, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: Heavensward

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC

Release Date:

June 23, 2015 (PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: Stormblood

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 20, 2017 (PlayStation 4, PC), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy XIV: Shadowbringers

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, Mac

Release Date:

July 2, 2019 (PlayStation 4, PC, Mac), March 21, 2024 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

