
  Five Nights At Freddy’s Continues Box Office Success, Becomes Highest-Grossing Blumhouse Film Ever






            Since premiering in late October, Five Nights at Freddy’s has become a big box-office success. It’s already the highest-grossing horror film of 2023, and it has now become horror production company Blumhouse’s highest-grossing film of all time.

The film adaptation of the popular 2014 horror game hit theaters on October 27, grossing a strong $80 million in its opening weekend, the best for any horror film this year. That’s even more impressive given that it premiered on the streaming service Peacock the same day it was released in theaters (becoming the most-watched title on Peacock during its first five days). 

Five Nights At Freddy’s has continued to gain traction over the past few weeks and has now grossed over $295 million ($136 million domestically, $160 million overseas) during the month it's been in theaters. That ranks it at the top of Blumhouse’s highest-performing films, a record previously held by M.Night Shyamalan’s Split, while also climbing over top performers such as Halloween (2018), Get Out, and Glass. 

FNAF is the BIGGEST @blumhouse film of ALL-TIME. Just passed SPLIT. thanks to Emma Tammi, Scott Cawthon, cast & the New Orleans crew, the Henson team, & our partners @universalpics & @peacock. @jhutch1992, @matthewlillard, @Piperrubios, @elizethdlail
— Jason Blum (@jason_blum) November 27, 2023

First announced in 2015 (roughly a year after the first game’s release), Five Nights At Freddy’s stars Josh Hutcherson (The Hunger Games series) with actors such as Elizabeth Lail and Matthew Lillard in supporting roles. The film is directed by Emma Tammi and produced by Blumhouse. The film joins the ranks of other highly successful video game adaptations to release in 2023, such as the other box office juggernaut The Super Mario Bros. Movie and HBO's critically-acclaimed The Last of Us. 

For more on Blumhouse, read about how the production company is creating a video game development and publishing studio. 

Did you watch Five Nights At Freddy’s? If so, what did you think of it? Let us know in the comments. 

      Products In This Article

Five Nights At Freddy's

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

August 8, 2014 (PC), August 26, 2014 (Android), September 11, 2014 (iOS), November 29, 2019 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

