
  Flintlock: The Siege Of Dawn Goes Gold, PC Specs And 20-Minutes Of Gameplay Revealed






            Flintlock: The Siege of Dawn has gone gold, meaning it should be all but ready for its release on July 18. Developer A44 (Ashen) has also released the game’s PC specs and 20-minutes of raw gameplay footage.

The upcoming "Souls-lite" fantasy action game stars elite soldier Nor Vanek and her furry fox-like companion Enki on a revenge quest to kill the gods of their world. She wields an arsenal of melee, firearms, and magic that can be chained to create stylish combo attacks. Nor Venek also has special traversal abilities to navigate the world, which is being besieged by the angry deities.

We last saw Flintlock during the Xbox Games Showcase a few weeks ago, but you can check out 20 minutes of new gameplay footage in the video below. Set during a later stage of the game, a synopsis adds context to the footage: "Join Nor and Enki as they prepare to step into the deserts of Wanderer’s Rest to take on the personal guard of the god Dukmar. With an entire army hunting for her, Nor will need all of her skills to make it to her eventual destination - the City of Sibyl, where she hopes the gods’ true intentions will finally be revealed."

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Here are the game's minimum and recommended PC specs:

Minimum

Operating System: Windows 10
Processor: Intel Core i5-8400 / AMD Ryzen 3 3300X
Memory: 8 GB RAM
Graphics Card: GTX 1060 / Radeon RX 580 (6GB+ RAM)
DirectX: Version 11
Storage: Up To 30 GB Available Space
Additional Notes: SSD

Recommended

Operating System: Windows 10
Processor: Intel Core i7-8700K / AMD Ryzen 5 3600X
Memory: 16 GB RAM
Graphics Card: GTX 2060 Super / Radeon RX 5700 (8GB+ RAM)
DirectX: Version 12
Storage: Up to 30 GB Available Space
Additional Notes: SSD

Flintlock: The Siege of Dawn launches on July 18 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. It's also launching day one on Xbox Game Pass. 

      Products In This Article

Flintlock: The Siege of Dawn

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

July 18, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

