
  Ghost Of Tsushima Director’s Cut Rides To PC In May






            Ghost of Tsushima is finally riding to PC. The game’s Director’s Cut is making its way to Steam and the Epic Games Store on May 16 and includes PC-specific enhancements. 

In terms of content, the Director’s Cut includes the full game, the Iki Island story expansion, and the co-op multiplayer Legends mode. Pre-ordering the PC version also earns the following unlocks: New Game+ Horse, Traveler’s Attire, and Broken Armor dyes from Baku’s shop. 

Developer Sucker Punch has partnered with Nixxes Software on this PC port. The game has been optimized for PC with unlocked frame rates, custom mouse/keyboard controls, and various graphical settings.

Per the PlayStation Blog post, “NVIDIA DLSS 3 and AMD FSR 3 are available with both upscaling and frame generation options. Intel XeSS upscaling is also supported and if your hardware has headroom to spare, you can use NVIDIA DLAA or FSR 3 Native AA to further boost image quality.” 

Ghost of Tsushima on PC also features ultra-wide monitor support, including 21:9 and 32:9 resolutions, as well as 48:9 resolutions for triple monitor setups. 

Ghost of Tsushima first launched for PlayStation 4 in 2020. It stars Jin Sakai, a samurai fighting to protect Tsushima Island from invading Mongols in 1274. The open-world game gives players the choice to take enemies down honorably (face-to-face in combat) or to utilize stealthier, more dishonorable tactics to rescue the island. You can read our review of the original version of Ghost of Tsushima, in which we scored it a 9.5 out of 10, here, and our glowing impressions of the Director’s Cut here.

      Products In This Article

Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

August 20, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4), May 16, 2024 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

