
  Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions Gets First Gameplay Trailer, Will Launch On PlayStation Plus






            Summer Games Fest gave us the cinematic reveal of Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions, an upcoming game based on the popular wizarding sport. A new trailer provides the first look at gameplay, including glimpses of a couple of modes and character customization. 

Quidditch Champions features a single-player career mode that allows players to climb the ranks of the sport. Each victory takes them to larger, grander venues, from Hogwarts to the Quidditch World Cup Stadium. An online competitive mode pits teams of real-life players against each other. Playable characters include Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Draco Malfoy, but you can also create and customize your own athletes using an extensive character creator. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions launches digitally on September 3 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. A Switch version is planned to launch sometime this holiday. 

Quidditch Champions will be available in two versions. The Digital Standard Edition ($29.99) simply includes the base game. Digital and Physical Deluxe Editions ($39.99) include the game, House Packs for Slytherin, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Gryffindor, and 2,000 in-game gold (earned in-game, as Quidditch Champions does not have microtransactions). The house pack includes a broom skin, travel school uniform, and crest emblem representing each house. The Physical Deluxe Edition goes on sale on November 8. 

Additionally, the Standard Edition will launch as a PlayStation Plus title on day one and will be available to subscribers until September 30.

      Products In This Article

Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 3, 2024 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), 2024 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

