
                                          The Casting of Frank Stone
                  


  How Filmmaking Works In The Casting Of Frank Stone




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Publisher
Behaviour Interactive

Developer
Supermassive Games

Release
September 3, 2024

Rating
Mature

            The Casting of Frank Stone is Game Informer’s cover story this month, and we learned some exclusive details about the upcoming horror game during our trip to Behaviour Interactive’s studio in Montreal. Speaking to Supermassive creative director Steve Goss, he clued us in on the game’s most central and unique mechanic: the Super 8mm camera. 

Set within the Dead by Daylight universe, the game story unfolds in the summer of 1980 in the unassuming small town of Cedar Hills. It follows a group of teenagers who set out to film a horror movie at an abandoned steel mill that has ties to a murderer named Frank Stone. At its core, The Casting of Frank Stone is a Supermassive game through and through. It’s a cinematic choice-driven horror game that sees players making decisions and executing split-second button prompts that can decide whether a character lives or dies. If you’ve enjoyed the studio’s previous works like Until Dawn or The Dark Pictures Anthology, you have a good idea of what to expect. But the experience features some intriguing new mechanics, such as the camera. 

The teens buy the 8mm camera from a store called the Curiosity Shop after dropping and breaking their original Super 8. However, it later becomes apparent that this is no ordinary camera, a fact players will experience first-hand. Given how vital movie-making is to the narrative, Goss says it would have been “absurd” not to lean into the idea of letting players actively participate in filmmaking. “You actually do filming,” he stresses. “You do film. And then it becomes ‘you film’ to ‘you have to film.’”

Goss is cagey about providing too many gameplay details about the camera, and we didn’t get to see it in action during our visit. However, he does reveal that players can freely take it out and film everything around them, which unfolds in first-person view. It’s a fully functioning camera; you have to wind it to record and reload it with more film. The camera is also imbued with some kind of magical energy and will be useful for survival. For example, one section of the game features an invisible enemy that can only be spotted using the camera's viewfinder, which causes the camera to crackle with energy. The camera's capabilities evolve throughout the adventure; Goss even teases it may not be the only camera players use. 

The camera is necessary for story and gameplay sequences and serves as the core intersection between the teens. Although the camera brings them together, it also becomes a point of tension. “If you've ever been engaged in a kind of a group creative exercise, people do try and vie for the leadership of the group,” Goss teases.

It’s tough not to draw parallels to the 2011 supernatural thriller movie Super 8, and that’s partially by design. The film was cited as one of the reference points for The Casting of Frank Stone more than once during our discussions. Both the game and the movie center on youths creating their own movie before spooky occurrences flip things on their head, which Goss says highlights Super 8’s producer Steven Spielberg’s penchant for creating stories about people making things, often forms of art. He hopes the theme of characters wanting to be the makers of things comes through in The Casting of Frank Stone. 

“When I was a kid [...] I bothered my parents until they bought me a camera and then made terrible things that were just absolutely worthless,” Goss says. “But it was the nearest I could get to being creatively kind of significant, I suppose. That's the thread here: a bunch of kids, probably [in] not the most forward-thinking place in the universe, probably not the most economically exciting place to be, certainly it doesn't have any kind of cool stuff to do, so they're making up for themselves. So that's why this is at the heart of that story.”

The Casting of Frank Stone launches on September 3 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. Be sure to visit our cover story hub for more exclusive stories and videos by clicking the banner below. 

      Products In This Article

The Casting of Frank Stone

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

September 3, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

