
  Hyper Light Breaker Early Access Launch Delayed To 2024






            Hyper Light Breaker, the upcoming action title by Solar Ash and Hyper Light Drifter developer Heart Machine, has been delayed. It was set to launch in Steam Early Access later this year, but the team needs more time to bring it together.

As such, the game will now launch early next year. A developer video simply informs fans of the team’s desire to spend more time with Hyper Light Breaker, with creative director Alx Preston stating in a press release, 

“We've made remarkable progress and the game has come a long way since we started development. Taking this additional time to focus on Hyper Light Breaker’s development will allow us to bring the game to its full potential and we are incredibly grateful for the support from our community that’s been with us every step of the way. We thank you for your patience and understanding as we work to deliver a new adventure that lives up to what fans expect from a Heart Machine title.”

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Hyper Light Breaker is a spiritual follow-up to Hyper Light Drifter, set within the same universe but imagined in 3D graphics. The third-person action game can be played alone or with friends in 3-player online co-op. Players roam the large, colorful world discovering new areas, battling monsters in flashy combat, and obtaining powerful gear in a quest to overthrow a powerful king. To learn more about the game, check out our April interview with Preston about the reveal of one of the game’s minibosses.

      Products In This Article

Hyper Light Breaker

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

