
  Jusant | New Gameplay Today






            Jusant is a meditative climbing adventure by Life is Strange developer Don't Nod. First revealed during Summer Game Fest, the game stars a nameless protagonist and his cuddly, water-like pet as they set out to scale a great mountain. The game mimics realistic climbing and physics, and players control each character's arms to pull themselves up and over ever-changing surfaces and obstacles while thoughtfully using a rope to extend their reach. Along the way, you'll explore the ruins of a lost civilization that once called the mountain its home. What happened to these people? What awaits at the summit for our hero? Jusant invites you to strap on your climbing gear and find out.

Join editors Marcus Stewart and Kyle Hilliard as they explore a slice of Jusant's early chapters and provide a hands-on impression of this enigmatic adventure. Jusant is coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S (including Game Pass), and PC on October 31. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

For more previews and discussions of some of the biggest games of 2023 and beyond, be sure to head over to our YouTube page for NGTs about Vampire Survivors on Switch, Gunbrella, Mr. Run and Jump,  The Crew Motorfest, Ra Ra Boom, Mortal Kombat 1, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, and Sea of Stars.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Jusant

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 31, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

