
  Larian CEO Says The Studio Is Done With Baldur’s Gate 3 To Focus On Something New






            Baldur’s Gate 3 was one of 2023’s most successful and critically acclaimed games, with many hailing it as one of the best role-playing games ever made. However, if you were hoping for the game to get an expansion or a sequel, that won’t be the case - at least not from its developer, Larian Studios. 

As reported by PC Gamer, Larian CEO Swen Vincke stated during an address at GDC today that the studio is finished with Baldur’s Gate 3. That means it won’t be getting any expansions nor will it be making a Baldur’s Gate 4. "We are a company of big ideas. We are not a company that's made to create DLCs or expansions," Vincke said. "We tried that actually, a few times. It failed every single time. It's not our thing. Life is too short. Our ambitions are very large.”

Not only that, but the studio is moving on from Dungeons & Dragons in general, with Vincke saying that "it's going to be up to Wizards of the Coast because it's their IP, to find somebody to take over the torch."

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

While Vincke says Larian is proud of what it accomplished, the studio wants to focus on a brand-new project. There's no telling what Larian may tackle next; given that it made Baldur's Gate 3 and the Divinity series, it's hard to imagine the studio not making another RPG of some sort. We'll have to wait and see. 

Baldur’s Gate 3 was released last August following a lengthy early access period to rave reviews, including several Game of the Year wins. While it’s disappointing that we won’t see any meaningful story updates for the title, we’re excited to see what Larian has in store next. 

As for other Dungeons & Dragons games that will pick up the torch, there's a few big titles on the horizon. Chief among them is Starbreeze's in-development D&D cooperative multiplayer game and Gameloft's D&D survival sim. 

You can read our review of Baldur's Gate 3 here. The game is also nominated for 10 BAFTA Awards next month, and you can read the full list of nominees here. 

[Source: PC Gamer]

      Products In This Article

Baldur's Gate 3

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 3, 2023 (PC), September 6, 2023 (PlayStation 5), December 7, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

