
  Marvel Studios' Fantastic Four Cast Revealed






            The Fantastic Four finally arrive in the Marvel Cinematic Universe next year, and Marvel Studios has officially revealed who will don the team’s iconic blue suits.

The Fantastic Four was first announced in 2019 and is scheduled to premiere next year as the second film in Phase Six of the MCU. In a sweet Valentine's Day message, Marvel announced the following actors will portray Marvel’s First Family: 

Happy Valentine’s Day from Marvel’s First Family! Pedro Pascal, Vanessa Kirby, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, and Joseph Quinn are The Fantastic Four.

Marvel Studios' #TheFantasticFour, in theaters July 25, 2025. pic.twitter.com/dOmLG0m7ie
— Marvel Studios (@MarvelStudios) February 14, 2024

Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic - Pedro Pascal (The Last of Us, The Mandalorian)

Sue Storm/Invisible Woman - Vanessa Kirby (Napoleon, The Crown) 

Johnny Storm/Human Torch - Joseph Quinn (Stranger Things, Overlord)

Ben Grimm/The Thing - Ebon Moss-Bachrach (The Bear, The Punisher)

Pedro Pascal has been on a roll lately, starring as Joel in HBO's The Last of Us, portraying the titular Mandalorian in The Mandalorian, and starring in films such as The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent, and the upcoming Gladiator 2. Vanessa Kirby made her name portraying Princess Margaret in the Netflix series The Crown, most recently played Joséphine in Ridley Scott's historical epic Napoleon, and has appeared in the recent Mission: Impossible films as Alanna. Stranger Things season 4 fans know Joesph Quinn best as the season's breakout character, Eddie Munson. Ebon Moss-Bachrach has recently been known as Richard "Richie" Jerimovich in the FX series The Bear and as Arvel Skeen in the Star Wars series Andor. 

WandaVision director Matt Shakman will direct The Fantastic Four, though its story details remain scarce. The Fantastic Four is scheduled to hit theaters on July 25, 2025.

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

