
  Metal Slug Tactics Transforms The Series Into Turn-Based Strategy






            Today’s Summer Games Fest presentation brought the announcement of a new turn-based strategy game set in the Metal Slug universe. Metal Slug Tactics brings the explosive, sprite-based action to a grid-based battlefield for a surprising spin on a '90s classic. 

Instead of side-scrolling action, characters like Marco, Eri, Fio, and Tarma are blasting apart tanks, jeeps, and other soldiers in turn-based combat. Players will wield an arsenal of classic Metal Slug weapons and improve their squad by unlocking new abilities across various skill trees as well as earning different perks. There’s also an adrenaline system that, while we don’t know the specifics of how it works here, will fuel the characters’ super attacks. 

Sorry, this video is not available

Developer Leikir Studio describes the flow of battles as unpredictable. Players must rely on skill to win the day rather than memorization of when and where enemy units will arrive. The studio also says the game sports roguelite sensibilities in that missions are highly replayable, not to mention challenging. The music sounds as good as the action looks thanks to a soundtrack composed by Tee Lopes of Sonic Mania fame. 

As weird as it sounds on the surface,switching gears and going the turn-based route feels rather fitting when you think about Metal Slug’s military premise. Metal Slug Tactics seems like one of those ideas we didn’t know we wanted and we can’t wait to learn more about it. The game is coming to PC via Steam but no release window has been given. It’s unknown if the game will make its way to other platforms. 

This isn’t the only upcoming classic game Dotemu has in the works. The publisher is also publishing the upcoming Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder’s Revenge as well as the Mr. X’ Nightmare DLC for Streets of Rage 4. 

Do you think turn-based strategy is a good fit for Metal Slug? Let us know down in the comments!

      Products In This Article

Metal Slug Tactics

Platform:

Switch, PC

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

