
  Mortal Kombat Movie Debuts First Images And New Story Details






            Mortal Kombat by Warner Bros. makes its long-awaited debut this April, and Entertainment Weekly has a new piece sharing story details and exclusive photos from the film. The new images give fans a look at some of their favorite kombatants in all their cinematic glory. 

The article runs through the film's opening minutes, a battle between Sub-Zero and Scorpion in their pre-ninja identities, Bi-Han and Hanzo Hasashi, respectively. The batch of photos give us good looks at Liu Kang, Kung Lao, Sonya Blade, Jax. The article also spotlights Cole Young, a brand-new character and the film's apparent protagonist. He's a down-on-his-luck, washed up MMA fighter who has a mysterious connection to the notorious tournament, evidenced by a birthmark of the iconic dragon symbol on his chest. Other confirmed characters include Raiden, Kano, Shang Tsung, Mileena, and Nitara. Be sure to head over to EW’s site for the full scoop, as it’s well worth a read.

For those worried that the film may water down the game’s signature gore, according to director Simon McQuoid, "it's definitely not gonna get a PG-13 rating." A big reason for that will be the movie’s fully realized Fatalities, a first for any Mortal Kombat film, some of which come directly from the games. Everything about the film looks promising on paper, and after suffering a COVID related delay, it’s nice to see a light of the end of the tunnel for the project. 

Mortal Kombat is also being produced by Todd Gardner and James Wan (Aquaman, The Conjuring). The film releases April 16 and will be available to stream on HBO Max the same day it hits theaters. For more on Mortal Kombat in cinema, check out this opinion piece on why the original 1995 film might be the best video game movie ever made. 

[Source: Entertainment Weekly]

            .

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

