
  Mortal Kombat 1 Khaos Reigns Story DLC Arrives In September, New Guest Fighters And Animalities Revealed






            Mortal Kombat 1’s much-anticipated story expansion has been revealed, and it’s called Khaos Reigns. It unfolds after the events of the story campaign and centers on the invasion of Titan Havik from an alternate reality, who seeks to spread anarchy across all timelines.

The expansion's cinematic story introduces new playable characters, Noob Saibot and the now female Sektor and Cyrax. These three fighters make up half of Kombat Pack 2 and will be available when the DLC launches on September 24. 

In keeping with the tradition of prior games, the second half of Kombat Pack 2 features guest fighters from various films. Scream’s Ghostface, Terminator 2’s T-1000, and Conan the Barbarian are on the way, but there’s no release window for their arrival. Kombat Pack 2 comes included with Khaos Reigns and cannot be purchased as a standalone character bundle. 

Animalities are making their return as a free content update upon Khaos Reigns’ release. First introduced in Mortal Kombat 3, these beastial finishing moves see fighters morph into animals to eviscerate opponents. The trailer reveals Mileena can turn into a giant, horrifying praying mantis, for example, and a press release states every playable fighter will have an Animality (which would include the movie-born guest fighters for an interesting thought). 

Speaking of free content, today, owners will receive the MK95 Scorpion skin modeled after his appearance in the live-action 1995 Mortal Kombat film. 

Khaos Reigns launches digitally on September 24 for all platforms MK1 is available on. It will run for $49.99 on every platform except for Switch, where it costs $39.99. You can read our review of the base game here.

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

