
  Multiplayer Tactical Shooter Exoborne Wants Players To Extract Loot While Fighting In Tornados






            Developer Sharkmob, makers of the battle royale Vampire: The Masquerade- Bloodhunt, have revealed a new open-world extraction shooter called Exoborne.

The game is a tactical shooter set in an apocalyptic Earth that is being torn asunder by extreme forces of nature, such as massive tornadoes and lightning storms. These calamities were somehow caused by the failure of a mysterious program called Project Rebirth, and now players find themselves fighting for survival in an environmentally unstable southwestern U.S. You play as a Reborn, a survivor outfitted in enhanced suits called Exo-Rigs with special weapons and augment your abilities to survive the myriad of threats, both human and elemental. Check out the cinematic trailer below. 

Exoborne drops players into a shared open world where, either alone or in a party of allies, they will scavenge for resources and extract them while fending off other players. The Exo-Rig bestows special abilities, such as the ability to leap very high, and comes outfitted with a grappling hook and even a parachute, which players can use to engage in aerial combat or even ride maelstroms (think Just Cause). 

The gameplay combines PvE and PvP and features an evolving narrative and sidequests that unfold throughout the otherwise multiplayer framework. Between primary tasks, you’ll also engage in dynamic public events and group missions. Powerful forces of nature add a chaotic wrinkle to fights; expect to engage in shootouts while getting swept up by tornados.

Characters, weapons, and Exo-Rigs can be customized with various mods and upgrades using the resources you extract. As a premium live-service game, Sharkmob plans to support Exoborne with various content updates, such as new live events.

Exborne is being developed in Unreal Engine 5 and is coming to PC and consoles at an undetermined date.

      Products In This Article

Exoborne

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

