
  Open World Dress-Up Game Infinity Nikki Gets A Delightful Gameplay Trailer And Beta Test This Year






            If you haven’t followed Infinity Nikki, it’s equal parts charming, beautiful, and ambitious. The open-world game is the latest entry in the Nikki series of fashion games, which is very popular in Asia, and Westerners are getting their biggest exposure to it yet with this charming adventure. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

The game unfolds on the magical continent of Miraland, and Nikki must save it. Her main power is "styling," which involves changing clothes from different nations, allowing her to adopt unique abilities. For example, one outfit allows her to float while another cleanses corrupted creatures of demonic energy. The trailer shows one outfit that lets players summon a giant flower to glide through the air. Another ability shrinks her to the size of her small companion, Momo, to access tight areas and other locations. 

The more outfits you collect, the more abilities Nikki has to solve puzzles and overcome platforming obstacles. But despite the "save the world" premise, Infinity Nikki is billed as a relaxing adventure. You can also catch bugs, go fishing, and gather resources to craft new outfits, among other activities. 

Infinity Nikki looks wild, and fans can get their first taste of it in a beta test happening during Q3 of this year. The game is coming to PlayStation 5, PC, iOS, and Android but has no release window. 

      Products In This Article

Infinity Nikki

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

