
  Report: Respawn Developing A First-Person Mandalorian Game






            We know that Respawn Entertainment, the team behind Titanfall, Apex Legends, and the Star Wars: Jedi series, has a couple of unannounced Star Wars games in the works. It’s unclear what form those projects are taking, but according to one report, one of them may star a Mandalorian.

Insider Gaming reports that its sources have disclosed that Respawn is developing a first-person title in which players assume the mantle of a Mandalorian. For clarification, players do not play as the Mandalorian, as in Din Djarin from the hit Disney Plus series, but rather as a different bounty hunter. The game is reportedly set during the height of the Galactic Empire and will see players capturing or killing bounty targets.

Additionally, Insider Gaming’s sources claim the game is not an open-world title. Instead, it will feature more linear levels set across multiple planets. Gameplay is said to emphasize “mobility” and “style” while also being “very fast-paced.” Players will have access to Mandalorian gadgets such as a jetpack (used to execute a variety of aerial maneuvers), grapple hook, wrist rocket, and a visor for scanning and tagging enemies. The project is allegedly a year or two away from release. 

While this report should be taken with a grain of salt, we know that Repawn has a Star Wars FPS in the works. In January 2022, the studio’s publisher, Electronic Arts, announced that Respawn is developing multiple Star Wars games. One of them is an FPS led by game director Peter Hirschmann, which could be this Mandalorian title. The other projects are last year’s Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and a yet-to-be-revealed strategy game. 

We’ve contacted EA for comment and will update this story if we receive a response. 

Whether this report is accurate or not, it's far from the last Star Wars game on the horizon. This year has Ubisoft's open-world Star Wars Outlaws and Zynga's long-awaited Star Wars: Hunters on the docket. Further out are Star Wars Eclipse by Quantic Dream, an unnamed Star Wars project by Amy Hennig's Skydance New Media, and (maybe) the remake of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. 

[Source: Insider Gaming]

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

