
  Shadows Of The Damned: Hella Remastered Invites Players To Hell Again This Year






            Grasshopper Manufacture announced during its summer showcase last year that its 2011 supernatural action game Shadows of the Damned is getting an encore in the form of a remaster. We now know the title of that update, along with a release window.

The newly christened Shadows of the Damned: Hella Remastered is coming later this year. Unfortunately, the game’s website and Steam page don’t detail exactly how the game has been enhanced from a performance standpoint. Grasshopper did release screenshots, so you’ll have to use those to discern the difference between this re-release and the original. A demo of the game is currently playable at Grasshopper’s booth at PAX East. 

Shadows of the Damned was first released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on June 21, 2011, and served as a collaboration between Resident Evil mastermind Shinji Mikami (who served as producer) and Grasshopper founder Goichi “Suda51” Suda (the game's writer). It stars Garcia Hotspur, a demon hunter who battles his way through the depths of the underworld to rescue his captive girlfriend, Paula. The game’s fun, over-the-shoulder shooter action combined with its irreverent, absurd humor earned it a 9.25 out of 10 in our original review and a cult following over the last 13 years. EA originally published Shadows of the Damned, and it was never ported to other platforms. Grasshopper is self-publishing the remaster. 

Shadows of the Damned: Hella Remastered is coming to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC.

      Products In This Article

Shadows of the Damned: Hella Remastered

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

