
  Silent Hill 2 Remake 'Progressing Smoothly', Says Bloober Team In Update






            Bloober Team has unexpectedly provided a light update on its upcoming remake of Silent Hill 2, ensuring fans that its development is “progressing smoothly”. You'll just have to wait for Konami to share more details. 

In an X post, the team behind The Medium and Layers of Fear asks for fans’ patience in regard to new information on the game while stating that development is going according to schedule. Konami announced the Silent Hill 2 remake last October with a lengthy trailer showcasing the 2001 classic’s updated presentation. The game currently has no release window but will launch on PlayStation 5 and PC. 

Here is Bloober Team’s full update: 

As Bloober Team, we are proud to be a part of Konami’s plans for the Silent Hill franchise. Alongside our partner, we are diligently working to ensure the Silent Hill 2 remake attains the highest quality. 

On behalf of our development team, we would like to clarify that the production is progressing smoothly and in accordance with our schedule. We understand that many players around the world are eagerly anticipating news about the game, and we appreciate your dedication.

However, we kindly ask for a bit more patience. Once Konami, as the game’s publisher, shares more information, we are confident that the wait will be worthwhile.

Thank you for your understanding and support!

Silent Hil 2 remake was one of many new Silent Hill projects announced last October. The first one to arrive was Silent Hill Ascension, an interactive streaming series that premiered on Halloween. Other projects in the pipeline include Silent Hill f, a new mainline entry set in 1960s Japan, and Silent Hill Townfall, a mysterious title published by Annapurna Interactive and developed by No Code, the creators of Observation. A new live-action film called Return to Silent Hill is also in production by original Silent Hill director Christophe Gans.

      Products In This Article

Silent Hill 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

