
  Sonic Superstars Cover, Remnant II, Twisted Metal Show Review | GI Show






Sonic Superstars is speeding onto the cover of our latest issue of Game Informer, and we're talking all about the Blue Blur's retro-modern throwback. Join Marcus Stewart, Kyle Hilliard, and Brian Shea as we break down our exclusive cover story. We'll also unpack Kyle's review of Remnant II while Marcus gives updated thoughts on his ongoing dinosaur-slaying crusade in Exoprimal. And finally, Marcus gives his review thoughts on Peacock's Twisted Metal series. 

Follow us on social media: Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Brian Shea (@brianpshea.bsky.social)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:01:44 - Cover Story: Sonic Superstars
00:27:35 - Remnant II
00:38:38 - Exoprimal
00:49:40 - Twisted Metal TV Show
01:06:33 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Sonic Superstars

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 17, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Remnant II

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

July 25, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Exoprimal

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

July 14, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

