
  Spider-Man (2000)| Super Replay






            Before Insomniac created its stellar Spider-Man trilogy and before Treyarch redefined web-swinging with the 2004 Spider-Man 2 movie tie-in game, the folks at Neversoft gave Spidey fans the best example of wall-crawling video game excellence with its 2000 take on the character. Spider-Man sees the friendly neighborhood hero battle a star-studded gallery of villains in an original adventure chock full of comic book goodness. As Spider-Man's first fully 3D action-adventure game, it laid the groundwork for mechanics such as web-swinging, a variety of web shooter attacks, and wall-crawling stealth gameplay. Join Marcus Stewart and Kyle Hilliard as they find out how Spider-Man holds up 23 years later. 

Part 1 – 19 Polygons of Venom
Part 2 – Our Villain Origin Stories
Part 3 – Stop the Presses
Part 4 – Roof Tiles Between Your Toes

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives of GI Live and more. 

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

      Products In This Article

Spider-Man (2000)

Platform:

Dreamcast, PlayStation, N64, Game Boy Color, PC, Mac

Release Date:

November 1, 2000 (PlayStation, Game Boy Color), November 21, 2000 (N64), May 1, 2001 (Dreamcast), September 20, 2001 (PC), January 24, 2002 (Mac)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

