
  Splitgate 2 Leaps Out Of A New Portal Next Year






            Splitgate’s combination of Halo-esque first-person shooter with Portal-inspired portal jumping mechanics made it quite the sensation when it launched in open beta in 2021. With its servers regularly buckling under the weight of its players, the game caught lightning in a bottle but petered out when the game finally went 1.0 and simultaneously ceased receiving support in 2022. Now, developer 1047 Games is back with Splitgate 2 and aims to refine the original's winning formula. 

Like the first game, Splitgate 2 will be a free-to-play 4v4 shooter that arms players with a portal gun and more traditional firearms to battle each other in aerial, dimension-hopping combat. The sequel is being built in Unreal Engine 5 and has a new emphasis on factions. Players can suit up to compete in the Sol Splitgate League as members of one of three groups: the agile Aeros, the time-manipulating Meridian, or the trigger-happy Sabrask. According to a press release, “Factions will grant players the ability to choose and progress based on their preferred gameplay style or competitive strategies.” Splitgate 2 will feature new objective-based game modes across new arenas and upgradable weapons. 

Additionally, a special Splitgate 2 companion app is available to download now. The app lets players explore the game’s universe through collectibles that unlock in-game rewards when Splitgate 2 launches. It also features quizzes and a new comic series called Splitgate: The Games We Play. The five-issue series will flesh out the backstory of the characters featured in the announcement trailer and additional issues will arrive monthly. 

Splitgate 2 launches in 2025 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Check out the first batch of screenshots below. 

      Products In This Article

Splitgate 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

