
  Stalker 2: Heart Of Chornobyl Returns With A Bang In New Gameplay Trailer 






            S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2: Heart of Chornobyl is still on track to release sometime next year, and developer GSC Game World has released its first trailer in six months, showcasing gameplay with some narrative trappings along the edges.

Courtesy of IGN, the new video shows that S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2 is looking pretty darn good. The narrative-driven shooter is set in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone in a post-apocalyptic world laden with dangerous mutated monsters. Players must fight their way to the heart of the zone while steering the non-linear plot through choice-driven gameplay. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Formally confirmed in 2020 after years of start and stop announcements, S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2 has had a tumultuous development. After announcing and quickly canceling NFT plans due to fan backlash in December 2021, the project came to a screeching halt in February due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, where GSC is based. Many employees were forced to evacuate their homes in Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital. Other designers chose to defend the city. One of GSC’s designers who volunteered to fight, Vladimir "Fresh" Yezhov, was recently killed in combat. 

S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2: Heart of Chornobyl is slated to arrive on Xbox Series X/S (including Game Pass) and PC in 2023. It was one of the many titles to get bitten by the delay bug and pushed into next year, a list you can check out here.

      Products In This Article

S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2: Heart of Chornobyl

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

