
  Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic Remake Announced For PS5 And PC






            Sony kicked off today’s PlayStation Showcase with a bang by announcing the rumored remake of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. The RPG classic is being rebuilt from the ground up for PlayStation 5. 

The original KOTOR was developed by Bioware and released in July of 2003. Set 4,000 years before the events of the original film trilogy, the game takes place during the Old Republic era of Star Wars with players controlling a character that can align with either the Jedi or Sith depending on the choices they make. It was critically acclaimed for its storytelling and choice-driven gameplay. Today’s teaser trailer doesn’t show much other than an intimidating glimpse of Darth Revan, but that’s likely more than enough to have many Star Wars fans jumping for join.

Sorry, this video is not available

The game is being developed by Aspyr Media, a team that's brought several older Star Wars titles to modern platforms in recent years such as Episode 1: Racer and Republic Commando. Speaking on the PlayStation Blog, Aspyr Lead Producer Ryan Tredwell says the following:  

"The team here at Aspyr and Sony Interactive Entertainment have joined forces with Lucasfilm Games to bring you a remake of this classic Star Wars adventure. We’re rebuilding one of the greatest RPGs of all time for a new generation with modern tech, features, visuals and more, while maintaining the integrity of the story and characters that we’ve come to cherish." 

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake will launch as a PlayStation 5 console exclusive and Lucasflim Games confirmed the game will head to PC as well. As for other consoles, the release wording suggests it could migrate elsewhere sometime after launch but that remains to be seen. The game currently has no release window. 

What do you want to see in a rebuilt version of Knight of the Old Republic? Let us know in the comments! 

      Products In This Article

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

