
  Stray Is Getting An Animated Movie






            Stray proved to be an unlikely phenomenon when it was released last July, and now the little kitty and its robotic pals are heading to the big screen. Publisher Annapurna has announced plans to develop an animated movie based on the hit indie game.

Per Entertainment Weekly, Annapurna Animation, the company's new animated film division, is following up its debut feature, Nimona, with a film adaptation of the 2022 adventure game. It will be the first game in Annapurna Interactive’s roster of titles to get the cinematic treatment, and, according to the publisher, it won’t be the last. Annapurna has not revealed a director, cast, or release window for the Stray film. Annapurna Animation is led by former Disney Animation executives Robert Baird and Andrew Millstein. 

"This is a game that's all about what makes us human, and there are no humans in it," Baird tells EW. "It's a buddy comedy about a cat and a robot, and there's such a hilarious dynamic. So, there's comedy inherent in this, but there's not one human being in this movie. I think it's one of the reasons why the game was incredibly popular, that you are seeing the world through the point of view of an adorable cat. How did they pull that off, and how are we going to pull that off in the movie? We will, even though sometimes it feels impossible, but we know that's the essence of the game and the key to telling the story."

Stray was developed by French studio BlueTwelve. Taking place in a post-apocalyptic Earth devoid of humans, players control a cat who gets separated from its friends and sets out to find them. The cat's journey takes it through cities occupied by sentient robots, which it befriends along the way, namely a flying drone named B-12. Stray was among the most celebrated games of last year, winning Best Debut Indie at the Game Awards, and made its way to Xbox last month. You can read our review of Stray here. 

[Source: Entertainment Weekly]

      Products In This Article

Stray

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

July 19, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC), August 10, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

