
  Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Story Spoilers Leak Online, Rocksteady Responds






            If you’re looking forward to playing Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League, especially to experience its story, your time on the internet just got a little bit harder. Some big plot points have leaked online, and naturally, developer Rocksteady isn’t happy.

Apparently, the leaks stem from a closed beta test in which audio from a pivotal story cutscene plus images and a video showing yet-to-be-revealed characters got out in the wild. We won’t share the details, but they’re not hard to find, so you’re on your own if you want to know more. We just ask that you refrain from posting any spoilers in the comments out of respect for others who wish to remain in the dark.

Rocksteady has posted a statement on its X account addressing the leaks, which we've posted in full below. 

We’re looking forward to players experiencing the story we’ve crafted in Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League once the game launches in the new year. We hope everyone can play the game and feel each moment in the narrative themselves. 

It is very disappointing to see details being shared ahead of the game’s release, so we can only urge you to try to avoid spoilers where you can. And please try not to impact the enjoyment of other players by posting spoilers.

We look forward to seeing you all in Metropolis on 02-02-24

-Rocksteady

It’s always a bummer to see leaks of this nature happen, and with Suicide Squad still two months away from launch, interested players who want to be surprised have several weeks of dodging spoilers before they can see the story for themselves. 

Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League takes place several years after the end of Batman: Arkham Knight and stars Harley Quinn, Deadshot, Captain Boomerang, and King Shark, tasked with defending Earth from a brainwashed Justice League, courtesy of Brainiac. The cooperative open-world adventure has received a lot of vitriol from fans for its shooter-based gameplay, always-online requirement, and live service elements, such as its battle pass. 

You can watch the game’s most recent trailer from the 2023 Game Awards here.

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

