
  Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League Video Reveals New Gameplay, Confirms Battle Pass And Free Post-Launch Content






            Today’s PlayStation State of Play concluded with an in-depth look at Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League by Rocksteady Games. Set five years after Batman: Arkham Knight, the adventure centers on the villains turned government-mandated saviors trying to stop a global invasion by Brainiac, who has hijacked the minds of Earth’s greatest heroes.

Metropolis serves as the game’s open-world sandbox, and the adventure can be enjoyed alone or with up to three other friends in co-op (requiring an internet connection for both and supports cross-play). The video presentation highlights each Squad member’s traits. Harley Quinn is the most acrobatic, sporting a grappling hook to swing across buildings. Deadshot uses a jetpack to fly or hover while using various assault weapons to riddle foes with bullets. King Shark relies on his brute strength, while Captain Boomerang uses a speed force gauntlet to quickly zip around enemies.

As a third-person shooter, every character wields a variety of customizable firearms that can be outfitted with different attachments, such as scopes. There are even different weapon manufacturing brands a la Borderlands. Players can outfit the Squad with various gear pieces and costumes, and some grant the attributes of other bad guys such as Bane. The moment-to-moment action features plenty of superpowered leaping, swinging, and teleporting around the city while unloading gunfire; it’s not that dissimilar to Crackdown in terms of its absurdity. 

The demo shows the Squad trying to rescue Lex Luthor, who is held captive by a brainwashed Flash. Wonder Woman makes a cameo, and we also learn that the Penguin will be involved. Additionally, other supervillains will aid the Squad in their mission. Toy Man upgrades the team’s gear while Gizmo works on their vehicles. 

As for the previously rumored live service elements, Rocksteady confirmed a battle pass that will only feature cosmetic items and has both free and paid premium tiers. An FAQ emphasizes that all in-game purchases are optional and do not affect gameplay. Additionally, the game will not have loot boxes. It also announced Suicide Squad will have free post-launch content, including new missions and unlockable playable characters. 

Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League launches on May 26 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC. 

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

