
  Supernatural Action Game Unknown 9: Awakening Reemerges With First Gameplay Trailer And Release Window






            Unknown 9: Awakening has been silent since its reveal at Gamescom 2020, but today’s Xbox Partner Preview saw it reemerge with its first gameplay trailer and release window.

The game is set within the popular sci-fi media franchise and is a third-person adventure starring Haroona (played by The Witcher's Anya Chalotra), a woman gifted with mysterious abilities. The game's official website has the following synopsis: 

You play as Haroona, a fierce truth-seeker (what we call a “Quaestor”) with a unique connection to another dimension known as the Fold. This other plane of existence contains powerful energy and long-lost knowledge that, if brought to light, could usher us into a wondrous era of advancement. However, if this forgotten wisdom falls into the wrong hands, it could lead to our inevitable demise.    

Determined to avenge the wrongs of her past, Haroona’s imminent journey will turn out to involve far more than just retribution. Humanity’s fate is at risk, and her ties to the Fold may be the key to securing our continued existence.

This quest will have you uncover the long-lost secrets of our collective past. You’ll also learn to tap into the Fold’s energy, gifting you incredible skills, known as Umbric abilities, that allow you to take down anyone who stands in your way.

But beware of the Ascendants, a dangerous offshoot of a secret society known as the Leap Year Society. This faction claims to want to use the Fold for the betterment of humankind, but don’t be fooled. Even the best of intentions can lead to catastrophe.

That includes, from what we can tell, sucking people's souls out of their bodies and telepathically blasting enemies through destructible environments. Haroona can also pull enemies, control their minds, and more. The game also features parkour-style platforming across an Indian city. 

Unknown 9: Awakening is coming this summer to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. 

      Products In This Article

Unknown 9: Awakening

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

