
  Super Replay | Mortal Kombat (2011)






            With Mortal Kombat 1 out in the wild we're revisiting the entry that set the series on its current trajectory: 2011's Mortal Kombat (aka MK 9). Join us as we take a bloody journey through the game's genre-defining story campaign.  

After 2006's Mortal Kombat: Armageddon seemingly concluded the franchise's main narrative, 2011's entry picked up the bloody pieces. It moved the saga forward by resetting the timeline, serving as a soft reboot that brought Mortal Kombat back to its 2D fighting roots and ushering in the return of the classic roster. MK 9's cinematic story mode served as an epiphany for the series and fighting games as a whole, establishing the blueprint for narrative fighting campaigns still utilized today. MK9's story also serves as the first chapter of the modern trilogy of games that Mortal Kombat 1 builds upon. For a whole lot more on MK9 and its development, you can read this feature on how the reboot saved the franchise.

Join editors Marcus Stewart and Kyle Hilliard as they battle their way through MK 9 to see how its reimagined tournament holds up. 

Part 1 - Surpr-iced! 
Part 2 - Bringing The Smoke
Part 3 - Staff Meeting
Part 4 - My Life As A Lin Kuei Robot
Finale - Waking the Dragons

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, for to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives such as Replay, GI Live, and more. 

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

      Products In This Article

Mortal Kombat

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation Vita, PC

Release Date:

April 19, 2011 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), May 1, 2012 (PlayStation Vita), July 3, 2013 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

