
  Super Replay | Silent Hill 






            We concluded 2022 by returning to our Super Replay roots by tackling an old-school survival horror game. That means replaying one of the greatest games of the PS1 era, Silent Hill! 

In 1999, Konami put the fear of fog in a generation of players with the release of Silent Hill. The eerie title eschewed the more bombastic horror of its main rival at the time, Resident Evil, in favor of more psychological frights. Protagonist Harry Mason must embark on a terrifying search for his missing daughter, Cheryl, within the eerie town of Silent Hill. What unfolds is a descent into madness that kickstarted a franchise that's (finally) returning to the limelight after years of dormancy. Join me, Marcus Stewart, along with Kyle Hilliard, as we survive Silent Hill’s debut adventure and see how its scares stack up 23 years later. Check out the full series in the header above or by clicking the links below. 

Episode 1 - The Harry Mason Shuffle
Episode 2 - When Doves Cry
Episode 3 - Bible.
Episode 4 - Age Seven, Short, Black Hair
Episode 5 - Map Daddy
Episode 6 - The End is Neigh

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, for to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives such as Replay, GI Live, and more. 

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

