
  Super Replay | Dino Crisis - Part 7






            Super Replay gets injected with a terrifying dose of dino-DNA as we tackle Capcom's most underrated game, Dino Crisis! Join us today on Twitch at 2 p.m. Central as we play the 1999 "panic horror" game from start to finish for two hours each week. Each episode will be uploaded to our Game Informer Shows YouTube channel the next day after airing. 

Episode 1 - Death Finds A Way
Episode 2 - In Defense of The Lost World
Episode 3 - Terror Dactyl 
Episode 4 - Gas That Raptor
Episode 5 - The Spit Hits the Fan
Episode 6 - Saturday Night Fever
Episode 7 - Action Boulevard 

After the success of Resident Evil, Capcom followed it up with a spiritual successor called Dino Crisis. The title follows a similar blueprint to Resident Evil but ditches zombies in favor of blood-thirsty dinosaurs. The game stars Regina, a special ops soldier sent with a team to investigate an island research facility that has been taken over by these prehistoric lizards. Join host Marcus Stewart with Kyle Hilliard on the sticks as the pair get to the bottom of whatever the heck is happening on this island and blast these critters back to extinction. 

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, for to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives such as Replay, GI Live, and more. 

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

