
  Super Replay | Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts Part 11






            Super Replay returns, and we're checking out Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts! Join us today on Twitch at 2:00 p.m. Central as we kick of the adventure, which will continue each week until we roll credits. We'll also have every episode available the next day on our Game Informer Shows YouTube Channel (or you can watch the videos in the above playlist or by clicking the links below). 

Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts was released for the Xbox 360 on November 11, 2008. The third (and, so far, final) entry in Rare's beloved platforming series centers on vehicle creation, where players collect and slap together hundreds of parts to assemble their own wacky contraptions to explore. The bevy of possible combinations and emphasis on player choice and creativity was largely unprecedented at the time, paving the way for future games such as the upcoming The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. However, this direction would divide fans due to how much it strays from the traditional Banjo formula. So where will I land on it? Let's find out.

Join me, Marcus Stewart, alongside Kyle Hilliard as we explore one of the Xbox 360's biggest hidden gems to see whether it holds up or falls apart like a poorly constructed doohickey. 

Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Part 4
Part 5
Part 6
Part 7
Part 8
Part 9
Part 10
Part 11

If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts! Be sure to also follow our second YouTube channel, Game Informer Shows, for to watch other Replay episodes as well as Twitch archives such as Replay, GI Live, and more. 

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

      Products In This Article

Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts

Platform:

Xbox 360

Release Date:

November 11, 2008

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

