
  Super Replay | Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance






            Standing here, I realize that this Super Replay will be a cut above the rest because we’ll be slicing and dicing in Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance! Join us today on Twitch at 2 p.m. Central to enjoy two hours of what will be a full playthrough of the cult favorite action game streaming weekly each Friday. You can also catch up on previous episodes by visiting our Game Informer Shows YouTube channel or watching the embedded episodes above!

Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance serves as a sequel/spin-off to Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots that puts cyborg ninja Raiden at the helm. Instead of sneaking around in boxes, players eviscerate foes in fast-paced, stylish action courtesy of developer Platinum Games. Since its launch in 2013, Revengence’s action and absurdity have garnered it a passionate internet fandom, but I have a little secret: I didn’t think the game was all that special when I played it at launch. However, years of being inundated with internet memes and being told my opinion is incorrect has inspired me to give Revengece another look. Will I acquire a new appreciation for the game nine years later? How many watermelons will I slice? You’ll have to tune in to find out. 

Join me, Marcus Stewart, and Blake Hester as we revisit Raiden’s beloved solo adventure. If you enjoy our livestreams but haven’t subscribed to our Twitch channel, know that doing so not only gives you notifications and access to special emotes. You’ll also be granted entry to the official Game Informer Discord channel, where our welcoming community members, moderators, and staff gather to talk games, entertainment, food, and organize hangouts!

Every week, Game Informer editors enter the vault and dust off games from every genre and platform imaginable. Watch Replay to relive fond (and not so fond) memories from gaming’s past.

      Products In This Article

Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

February 19, 2013 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), January 9, 2014 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

