
  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Game Coming Next Year






            The animated film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem has garnered critical acclaim since its release in theaters last month. As fans know, the best way to follow up a good TMNT project is to make a video game out of it, and that’s exactly what's happening next year. 

Publisher Outright Games, along with Paramount and Nickelodeon, have announced a new untitled TMNT game in development set within the Mutant Mayhem universe. It will feature the same striking visual design and follows a new story set months after the movie's events. There’s no word yet on if the film’s ensemble cast will reprise their roles.

In terms of gameplay, a press release only hints that the project involves “combining energetic ninja teamwork gameplay with a humorous narrative, players will take control of the Turtles as they interact with a host of memorable characters from the franchise and fight to save this stylized take on New York City from a new mutant threat.” Outright Games has experience working on games based on kid-friendly licenses, making titles based on Star Trek: Prodigy, How to Train Your Dragon, Paw Patrol, and Peppa Pig. 

The TMNT: Mutant Mayhem game is targeting PC and consoles. It’s the latest project in what’s been quite a renaissance for the Turtles, especially in video games. The resurgence kicked off with last year’s well-received TMNT: Shredder’s Revenge, which recently got a big new expansion. The Cowabunga Collection bundled nearly every classic TMNT game into one package for a modern audience. A single-player action game based on the beloved TMNT: The Last Ronin graphic novel is also in the works.

      Products In This Article

Untitled Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Game

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

