
  The New Machines Of Horizon Forbidden West (That We Know So Far)






            Horizon Forbidden West’s new setting is teeming with exotic, dangerous, and never-before-seen machines. We already broke down the fearsome Slitherfang, and Guerrilla divulged some additional details on previously revealed robotic creatures. But, for those who haven’t kept track of the game’s fearsome new faces, here’s a handy round-up of the new machines that have been revealed thus far. 

            Rollerback

            Rollerbacks resemble giant armadillos that, you guessed it, like to roll. They fold their massive bodies into spinning balls of death and hurl themselves at targets, seemingly using the flames firing from their scale-like armor as propulsion. We've also seen them eject their scales as projectiles, then magnetically recall them. Additionally, Rollerbacks are even capable of launching themselves airborne. The underbelly of this machine reveals several components players can target to hopefully disable and slow the Rollerback down long enough to dismantle.  

            Burrower

            Burrowers are a basic enemy type that Guerrilla describes as the successor to the Watchers from the previous game. Resembling an otter or weasel, the Burrower is highly agile and functions as a recon machine that uses its high-pitched sound to stun targets and alert allies. Per their animal inspiration, Burrowers are also adept at swimming. 

            Bristleback

            The boar-like Bristleback travels in herds and uses its tusks to unearth buried resources. Think of this as their form of grazing, as Bristlebacks make for a peaceful sight when admired from afar. However, ticking off the Bristleback causes it to attack by combining its recovered scrap with elemental material for a powerful ranged assault. You don’t want to be on the wrong end of those tusks, either. 

            Clamberjaw

            Clamberjaws are scavengers that are baboon-like in appearance and structure. Thus, they’re as acrobatic as they are aggressive. In addition to scaling walls, Clamberjaws possess several debilitating attacks. It doesn’t help that they often travel in groups, meaning players will need to keep their eyes on the ground and in the trees when dealing with them. 

            Tremortusk

            The mammoth-like Tremortusk is one of the first boss monsters that wowed players when Horizon Forbidden West was first shown off. This fortress-like titan is armed with an array of heavy weaponry, such as cannons and highly resistant armor plating. Tremortusks rival Zero Dawn’s most powerful machines, the Thunderjaw and Stormbird, making it especially worrisome that the human Regalla faction has captured and weaponized them for their own use. 

            Clawstrider

            Clawstriders were among the first of Forbidden West’s new machines, though they briefly appeared in the Horizon comic. These mechanical velociraptors are as fearsome as their extinct counterparts and travel in packs. That means it probably won’t be the one you see that gets you; it’ll be the Clawstrider you didn’t know was there. Clawstriders also emit a debilitating sonic “scream” that temporarily stuns Aloy. Clawstriders can be mounted despite their aggressive behavior, as seen in previous footage with Regalla soldiers riding atop them to attack Aloy. That also means players can override and hop aboard a Clawstrider of their own. The most recent trailer from The Game Awards also revealed a fire-spewing variant. 

            Shellsnapper

            We first glimpsed this majestic giant turtle lifting its camouflaged body from a swamp after encountering Aloy in the debut trailer. It may look wondrous, but the Shellsnapper is a combat machine that ambushes those who intrude on its territory. It can extend its neck to bite prey ala snapping turtles and fire pressurized water blasts as well. There’s also that pesky shell protecting it, meaning players will have to find clever ways of toppling this beast. 

            Tideripper

            Looming beneath the depths is the Tideripper, an aquatic creature that follows the prehistoric theme of several other machines by resembling a plesiosaur. It commands the ocean and accumulates resources by filtering sediments from the water. Although it looks relatively harmless, Tiderippers have no problem attacking Aloy in the sea or on land, for that matter. 

            Sunwing

            Seeing Sunwing soar across the West is an awe-inducing sight. The wings of this Pterosaur-like machine consist of flexible, sun-absorbing panels, presumably to power itself. Guerrilla has previously stated that Sunwings are vulnerable while gathering solar energy but are also more alert to threats while stationary. 

            Be sure to visit our cover story hub to read more features on Horizon Forbidden West.

      Products In This Article

Horizon Forbidden West

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

February 18, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4), March 21, 2024 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

