
  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 Announcement Coming In September






            Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 has slumbered in development hell since its 2019 reveal, but a much-anticipated update appears to be on the way. 

A tweet from the game’s official account invites fans to tune in this September for a “big announcement.” The team also shares a fresh batch of screenshots, which you can view in the gallery below. It’s unknown what state the game is in, but an FAQ reveals that launch information will be shared in the September update. Additionally, the game’s new developer will be named as well. 

Rise, Kindred, and join us in September for a big announcement! pic.twitter.com/RdmJY7pbgA
— Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 (@VtM_Bloodlines) June 7, 2023

Things have changed during the game’s long development, including the versions of the game some fans pre-ordered a good while ago. Because of this, the team is offering refunds on those pre-orders for those who want one, explaining in a blog post that, 

“As development continues, we will be updating the game’s editions and bonus content, and we want to provide the best value to those of you who supported us via digital pre-order after all this time. We are thus offering refunds to anyone who has pre-ordered any edition of Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2. As part of this process, we are proactively refunding all pre-orders of physical products, including the Collector’s Edition. The digital versions of the First Blood Edition, Unsanctioned Edition and Blood Moon Edition remain, but can be refunded if you choose.”

It’s been a rocky journey for Bloodlines 2. Announced in 2019 as the long-awaited sequel to the 2004 cult classic, Hardsuit Labs served as its developer. However, subsequent delays and the departures of original Bloodlines designer Brian Mitsoda and senior narrative designer Cara Ellison led to publisher Paradox Interactive removing Hardsuit from the project. The game has been coming together under a new team since, but these events haven’t exactly inspired confidence that Bloodlines 2 will live up to expectations. Still, we’re very curious to see how the game has endured come September.

      Products In This Article

Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

