
  WWE 2K22 Gets Its Cover Star, Release Date, And Special Editions






            WWE 2K22 has found its cover star and release date. Gracing the front of the box this year will be the legendary Rey Mysterio, whose career will be highlighted in the game’s Showcase mode. Check him out in all his high-flying glory. 

As for when you’ll get to step into the masked wrestler’s shoes along with many others, you can circle March 11 on your calendar.

We previously detailed some of the features, gameplay modes, and confirmed superstars in last November’s update (which you can read here), but 2K22 features a new engine built from scratch to allow for smoother animations and simplified yet strategic grappling. Along with the Mysterio-focused Showcase mode, MyFaction is a new destination that lets you build your own stable of superstars. MyGM lets players manage brands, rosters, and storylines, while MyRise is a reworked version of the old MyCareer story mode. Expect a fully revamped creation suite as well. 

In addition to the standard version of the game, which runs for $69.99 on current consoles and $59.99 on last-gen hardware, 2K revealed three special editions:

Cross-Gen Bundle - $79.99

Digital standard editions of current/last-gen versions of the game within the same console family
Starrcade ’96 Rey Mysterio Pack

Deluxe Edtion – $99.99 

Available physically and digitally
’96 Starrcade Rey Mysterio pack (PlayStation 5/Xbox Series X/S only)
Undertaker Immortal Pack
Season pass to five post-launch DLC packs
MyRise Mega-Boost and SuperCharger packs
Limited-edition WWE SuperCard content
Three-day early access with pre-orders before March 8

nWo 4-Life Edition – $119.99

Available digitally only
All Deluxe Edition bonus content
MyFaction EVO cards
Alternate nWo attires for Hulk Hogan, Scott Hall, Kevin Nash, and Syxx
Eric Bischoff as a playable character
WCW Souled Out 1997 and WCW Bash at the Beach 1996 arenas
nWo Wolfpac Championship
Three-day early access with pre-orders before March 8

Lastly, 2K finally confirmed the full list of WWE 2K22’s platforms. To no surprise, you can pick it up on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. But before you go, 2K released a new trailer, a handful of new screenshots, and the box art for the special editions that you can admire below.

            .

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

WWE 2K22

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 11, 2022

Purchase
More Info

