
  WWE 2K24 Celebrates 40 Years Of Wrestlemania






            With Wrestlemania 40 on the horizon, WWE 2K24 appropriately celebrates the milestone by highlighting four decades of the grandest stage of them all. The "American Nightmare" Cody Rhodes graces the cover of this year’s installment. Additionally, Bianca Belair and current Women’s World Champion Rhea Ripley share the Deluxe Edition cover, making them the first women to receive a dedicated cover. 

First off, the gallery below shows off the cover art for each of the game's three editions (read on for details on each):

This year’s documentary-style Showcase mode is dubbed Showcase…of the Immortals and lets players relive some of the most iconic moments in Wrestlemania’s history. As in previous years, the mode will seamlessly switch from gameplay to live-action footage of the match and will feature unlockable content for completing optional objectives. 

2K24 introduces four new match types: Ambulance, Special Guest Referee, Casket, and Gauntlet. Improvements have been made to existing matches; for example, Backstage Brawl now supports four players and more interactive elements. The Royal Rumble supports eight-player online play. WarGames and other popular stipulations such as Hell in a Cell, TLC, and Extreme Rules will return.

Gameplay additions include Super Finishers, a trading blows mini-game, and players can do top rope dives outside of the ring onto a group of adversaries. There are also double title matches, new Paybacks, new weapon types such as trash cans, guitars, and microphones, and you can throw weapons. 

MyRise returns with two brand-new storylines. MyGM has been expanded with more GMs, match types, championships, and a new feature called Superstar Journey, where talent can earn XP to level up by training and participating in matches. MyFaction now includes ranked online Quickplay with unique rewards and seasonal leaderboards. 

Universe mode has expanded rivalry options such as run-ins, Money in the Bank cash-ins, and new cutscenes. New stipulations include Double Title matches, Special Guest Referee, and Loser Leaves Town. The Creation Suite now lets you create referees and crowd signs in addition to new parts and animations for the existing templates, such as Superstars, entrances, arenas, and more. 

A small glimpse of the playable roster has been revealed via press release info and screenshots. Additionally, several real-life referees will be included in the game for the first time (but are not playable). If previous years are an indication, expect a gradual rollout of roster reveals and ratings over the coming weeks. 

Andre the Giant
Asuka
Bianca Belair
Charlotte Flair
Cody Rhodes
John Cena
Randy Savage
Rey Mysterio
Rhea Ripley
Roman Reigns
Stone Cold Steve Austin
Triple H
Undertaker

2K24 will be available in three editions. The Standard Edition will be $69.99 on current-gen consoles and $59.99 on last gen and PC. A digital-only Standard Cross-Gen Edition, which gives you the game on both consoles in the same platform family (ex: PS5 and PS4), will be $69.99. The breakdowns of the more expensive editions are as follows:

Deluxe Edition ($99.99) 

Base Game
Standard Cross-Gen Edition
Nightmare Family Pack (Includes playable characters Stardust, "Undashing" Cody Rhodes, Dusty Rhodes '76, "Superstar" Billy Graham)
Season Pass
MyRise Mega-Boost/SuperCharger
Gold Rarity Rhea Ripley/Bianca Belair MyFaction Cards
Alternate attires for Rhea Ripley/Bianca Belair

Forty Years of Wrestlemania Edition ($119.99)

All content in Standard/Deluxe Editions
Alternate Wrestlemania Attires for Randy Savage (WM 6), Rey Mysterio (WM 22), Triple H (WM 30), Charlotte Flair (WM 33), and Rhea Ripley (WM 36)
Gold Rarity MyFaction Cards for Randy Savage, Rey Mysterio, Triple H, Charlotte Flair, and Rhea Ripley
Instant unlocking of all playable Showcase characters
Wrestlemania 40 arena (arriving post-launch) 

The Standard Editions of WWE 2K24 launch on March 8. The Deluxe and Forty Years of Wrestlemania Editions arrive a few days earlier on March 5. It will be available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. You can read our review of last year's game, WWE 2K23, here.

      Products In This Article

WWE 2K24

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 8, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

