
  Xbox Reportedly Considering Indiana Jones And The Great Circle For PlayStation 5






            Indiana Jones and the Great Circle is one of the biggest Xbox exclusives on the horizon. According to a new report, however, Microsoft might be thinking of bringing Indy to other platforms.

The Verge has spoken to an insider familiar with Microsoft’s plans who claims the publisher is considering the idea of bringing several first-party titles to other consoles, like releasing Indiana Jones on the PlayStation 5. The source claims that Bethesda is tentatively targeting a December release for the title and that it will launch as an Xbox/PC title before possibly coming to PlayStation 5 after a short exclusivity window. 

Remember that nothing has been officially announced or confirmed, so take this report with a grain of salt. It’s worth noting, though, that during Microsoft’s trial with the FTC over its acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Bethesda’s then head of publishing, Pete Hines, testified that parent company ZeniMax had initially signed an agreement with Disney to make Indiana Jones a multiplatform game. Microsoft later amended this deal to make the game an Xbox exclusive after it acquired ZeniMax in 2020, with Hines explaining the decision was made in the name of "reducing risk and trying to get a degree of clarity."

Microsoft’s rumored multi-platform approach has garnered plenty of speculation in recent months. The publisher is reportedly looking to bring first-party games like Hi-Fi Rush and Sea of Thieves to rival platforms in the near future. Starfield is also rumored for a PS5 launch, as reported by XboxEra. 

Indiana Jones and the Great Circle was first announced in 2021 and had its full reveal during the Xbox Developer Direct last month. The first-person action-adventure romp stars Troy Baker as Indy in a story set between Raiders of the Lost Ark and The Last Crusade. The game is slated to launch sometime this year for Xbox Series X/S and PC. 

[Source: The Verge]

      Products In This Article

Indiana Jones and the Great Circle

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

