
  Yellow Brick Games Teases Reveal Of Its First Project






            In 2020, indie studio Yellow Brick Games was formed by a collection of industry veterans with experience on triple-A franchises such as Dragon Age, Assassins’ Creed, and Mass Effect. After quietly working on its first project, the team is ready to show the world what it’s been cooking up.

The studio released a brief teaser of their yet-to-be-titled first game. A press release states that this mysterious project is a fantasy action-adventure title targeting a 2025 release. We won’t find out more until April 2, when IGN will reveal the game as an IGN First. 

The studio also included two pieces of concept art, which you can view in the gallery below.

Yellow Brick Games was founded by Thomas Giroux (co-founder/CEO), Jeff Skalski (co-founder/COO), Frédéric St-Laurent B (game director), and Mike Laidlaw (chief creative officer). The team has offices in both Montreal and Quebec City and currently consists of 68 employees. The studio was founded to foster a "people first" work culture where employees' wellness takes priority while also focusing on developing titles featuring, according to their website, "deeply interactive spaces where player creativity can shine."

"We are thrilled to share this exciting news with our community. Self-publishing is a leap of faith, especially in the current turbulent industry climate, but it’s also an opportunity to take our destiny into our own hands and reach out directly to players and the wider gaming community during this release.” says Mike Laidlaw, in a press release"Our team has been hard at work for years, and we can’t wait to showcase our debut project to the world. It’s a huge milestone for us, and we see it as just the first step on what we hope will be a long and rewarding journey for the company, charting our own path, and growing our talents and products brick by brick.”  

      Products In This Article

Eternal Strands

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

Marcus Stewart
Associate Editor
Marcus is an avid gamer, giant wrestling nerd, and a connoisseur of 90's cartoons and obscure childhood references. The cat's out of the bagel now!

Email
Twitter

