
  Forspoken’s Dangerous Magic: 20 Combat Spells We’ve Seen So Far






            Forspoken’s protagonist Frey Holland finds herself inexplicably thrust out of her native New York City and into the magic-laden world of Athia. To survive until she can find her way back home, Frey must learn to fight, but the game’s combat system shies away from mundane weapons. However, getting through Athia’s dangers means she, and the player, needs to master magical combat.

“Magic is really at the heart of Forspoken,” says co-director Takefumi Terada. “So, we’ve really made sure to make a diverse array of magic available for players.” And it looks like the team has done just that. From melee-type spells to mystical traps and long-range enchantments, Forspoken offers a vast range of attack options. So, we gathered 20 combat spells we spotted in a recent exclusive demo into one list and stuffed even more into the enchanting video below.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

            Attack Magic

            Shot – This basic spell, like the rest of the attack magic in this list, is mapped to the right trigger and doesn’t require a cooldown. However, it deals minimal damage to compensate. The small bullet-like blasts are akin to throwing rocks at enemies than more war-ready projectiles.

Burst Shot – The first version of this spell we saw indicated it was at level 3, which clued us in to the fact that you can upgrade various magic attacks. Burst Shot manifests a glowing chunk of rock in your hand, which you can hurl at enemies.

Slice – Among the most visually exciting spells we saw in Forspoken, Slice conjures a magical sword dripping with fiery sparks. The shimmering red magic flies through the air as you swing the weapon.

Arc Slice – Call up that fire sword once more to execute a powerful downswing blow, dropping the unlucky target of your fury to the ground. It hits harder if you’re in midair, but the range is limited if your feet are off the ground.

Blast Slice – Requiring a little more range than its counterparts, Blast Slice generates a weapon that looks like a cross between a spear and a lightning bolt. You can throw these at hostile creatures, and it will also affect the surrounding area.

Bolt – Lob a blue orb at enemies that looks a little bit like a glimmering snowball. It won’t cause much harm, but you can chuck the wintery ball of magic repeatedly without running out.

Fan Bolt – Another upgradable spell, Fan Bolt takes the blue orb from the former spell and splits it into multiple, arrow-like projectiles. These will shoot out in a horizontal row, making it good for taking out multiple enemies.

Cluster Bolt – One of creative producer Raio Mitsuno’s favorite attacks, this spell fires a single mystical arrow into the sky. On its descent, the shaft breaks apart, showering anything underneath it with damage-dealing shards.

Dart – This magical attack works very much like Shot. Greenish knife-like bursts spring instantaneously from your hand at a target. You seem to have an endless supply, but they’re not very powerful.

Pulse Dart – Before sending another blast of green at your enemies, this spell – which can be leveled up – lets you charge the attack in your hand for a second. The result is a noticeably more powerful barrage of darts.

            Support Magic

            Bind – Instead of doing direct damage, most support magic – which you can use by pulling the left trigger – gives Frey a boost or helps bolster other attacks. Bind, for instance, prompts vines to tangle up foes. This leaves them sitting ducks for your attacks.

Prime – According to its description, this spell “places a magical trap in a spot of your choosing that explodes when stepped on, dealing area damage.” It’ll not only inflict damage but also allow you more time to charge another spell.

Charge – Launch towards your enemies in an explosive burst, surrounded by mystical, magma-like tendrils. Sometimes a shoulder to the face is all you need to take out a foe.

Distortion – Distortion is an area of effect attack that starts as a green orb in your hand. You then toss the enchanted sphere at your adversaries, causing a green burst of fog around them.

Fusillade – Primarily meant as a defense option, this spell will cause several flame-touched swords to hang in the air behind you. Should an enemy attack while you are occupied with powering up for your next magical blow, these deadly weapons will fight them off.

Legion – If summoning a series of swords to shield you sounds cool, you’re going to want to learn Legion. Instead of inanimate objects, you’ll find a horde of flaming allies at your back when you use this power.

Crucible – This spell focuses on boosting the player rather than causing direct damage. Choosing to fire off Crucible will enclose the area in a fiery wall, inside which attack power is increased.

Naedre – A bright purple streak weaves through the sky and flies towards and around foes, envenomating them. This also happens to be another of Mitsuno’s favorite arcane tricks.

Maelstrom – Maelstrom’s in-game description reads: “Summons a watery pillar in the designated spot that protects against ranged attacks.” The resulting column of twisting water looks just as cool as it sounds.

            Top of the Pyramid

            Forspoken’s entirely spell-based combat system is represented in the UI as a triangle in the lower right side of the screen. The left and right points at the triangle’s base hold support and attack magic, respectively. At the pinnacle sits your most intense spells. You can call these down on dangerous Break zombies or fierce mini-bosses, but, once exhausted, you can’t use the attack again anytime soon. So, choose your moments wisely. These top-tier spells have eye-catching names like Genesis, Cataract, or Tempest, which you might have spotted in the video breakdown. However, during our hands-off demo we got a close look at Conflagration. This vicious enchantment lets the player call up a wall of lava that resembles an erupting volcano – with a bit of lightning thrown in for good measure – that wipes out everything unlucky enough to get caught in its path.

      Products In This Article

Forspoken

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

January 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

