
  Moss: Book 2 Launch Just Weeks Away






            Despite getting a grand reveal in last year’s PlayStation State of Play showcase, developer Polyarc has been almost as quiet as a mouse on the game’s details. However, the floodgates are about to open. Fans can look forward to Moss: Book 2 unfolding on PSVR March 31.

The original VR adventure starring the adorable-yet-formidable mouse Quill came out four years ago. Virtual reality technology has grown by leaps and bounds in that span of time, making a follow-up to the well-received title a welcome announcement. This is especially true as we head towards the eventual release of the PSVR2, though Moss: Book 2 is not slated to release on the next-gen hardware. However, there might be news on that front sometime in the coming months.

In the preview footage, we saw the pint-sized adventurer just moments after the end of the first game. Traveling through a garden outside the castle where she saved her uncle, Quill and the player work together to navigate several obstacles. One of the new mechanics for this title is the power for the player to grow vines, which Quill can use to climb up surfaces or cross chasms. According to the game’s creators, this second chapter, which will include several more hours of content than the first, really leans into the interactions between the heroic rodent and the player, and many new elements will reflect that.

You can also look forward to fresh weapons in the game, including a large – for a mouse – hammer. Found in another revealed area, The Foundry, which sits under the castle and is dominated by pipes and stone, the hammer has several uses. You can clear obstacles, trigger switches, or fight enemies with this blunt instrument, which should give players a lot of variety. Picking up different skills and devices like the hammer throughout the game, Polyarc explains, gives players good reasons to retread previously visited areas.

The virtual reality-based sequel is set to hit in two weeks, but the team has something for fans before that. A limited-edition Moss: Book 2 poster (shown above) is available right now on Amazon. The new adventure kicks off on March 31, so poster or not, be ready.

      Products In This Article

Moss: Book II

Platform:

Quest, PlayStation VR

Release Date:

March 31, 2022 (PlayStation VR), July 21, 2022 (Quest)

Purchase
More Info

