
  Biomutant Gets A May Release Date






            Biomutant is coming to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on May 25. This year! Finally, we have a date for the third-person mutant masher where you get to play as a gene-splicing martial arts master in this open world action RPG. Over the course of your adventure, you can unlock all kinds of traversal and combat options as you explore, craft new gear, and more. One interesting note about this news is that there is no mention of a current-gen (PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X/S) version, but that doesn't mean that one won't be available.

Biomutant is coming to PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on May 25th, 2021. pic.twitter.com/qVdTMaxxS5
— Biomutant (@Biomutant) January 26, 2021

Our last look at Biomutant was in 2020. While teasers and quick bites are normal marketing fare as we lead up to an eventual game launch, the last trailer gave players a massive nine minutes to digest.

Sorry, this video is not available

If you missed out on taking a look at the trailer when it dropped, it's definitely worth taking a look now. In Biomutant, you can re-code your genes to create your own playstyle, exploring combinations of melee, ranged, and abilities. You can also find Wung-Fu masters across the land that can teach you new skills.

DNA can give you new forms to deal with combat scenarios, like tapping into the powers of the turtle for a more defensive approach. As you keep pushing against the edges of your world, you may find areas that are too dangerous or hostile to explore. A multitude of fast travel or alternative travel options abound, allowing you to take the to sky or sea to achieve your goals. Perks and unlocks can help you deal with this, like if you come up against a zone filled with poison gas you can use a gas mask to travel safely within its borders. 

Still curious? Check out some Biomutant impressions right here! Are you looking forward to Biomutant? Let us know what you think about the game in the comments below!

      Products In This Article

Biomutant

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

May 25, 2021 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), September 6, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S), May 14, 2024 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

