
  December Cover Revealed - Warcraft III: Reforged






            We visited Blizzard Entertainment to dive into the reinvention of one of the best real-time-strategy games of all time. With Warcraft III: Reforged, Blizzard offers a massive makeover to the classic title that goes far beyond a remaster. With overhauled graphics, dialogue, cutscenes, campaign, and tools for mapmakers to work with, the RTS is poised for a veritable renaissance.

Our December issue is packed with details on Blizzard's approach to this expansive task, including deep dives with the development teams, hands-on experiences with the campaign and multiplayer, and an examination of how the original game came to be, where it's at now, and where it's going.

Sorry, this video is not available

Starting today, we'll have exclusive online content for Warcraft III: Reforged, featuring some of the new cosmetic hero variants that can show up in multiplayer as takes on classic archetypes like the Demon Hunter (which can now spawn as a Demon Huntress!) and more. Look for more content on all things Blizzard to roll out over the course of the month.

The December issue is also crammed with tons of other amazing features. Check out a deep look into Poland's game development scene, our Holiday Buying Guide, the history of flash games, and more! We've also got previews for Diablo Immortal and Control and a career-spanning interview with Geoff Keighley.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches on November 6 for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle later. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

Click the banner below to see what we’ve got planned for our month of Warcraft III: Reforged and bookmark the hub. New stories will be added fast, so be sure to come back often to learn more about Blizzards' upcoming game.

      Products In This Article

Warcraft III: Reforged

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

January 28, 2020

Purchase
More Info

