
  Disco Elysium: The Final Cut Is Coming To Console






            Critically-acclaimed Disco Elysium is getting a fresh coat of paint and coming to just about everything. Disco Elysium: The Final Cut is coming to PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and PC (Free upgrade for existing owners) in March 2021. It's then headed to Xbox Series X/S and Switch in Summer 2021. There's even a big collector's edition set for the superfans that comes with a vinyl sculpture, art book, map, physical edition of the game, and more. You know, all that cool collector's edition stuff.

However, that's not all. The upgrade adds some new content to the game. New political vision quests allow you to go down roads that didn't exist before. A whole new area is available, more to discover, and more characters to meet. Controller support lets you play without a mouse and keyboard. And, Disco Elysium: The Final Cut will run in 4k and 60 FPS on PlayStation 5. You can find out more details at the official website.

"As the hours unfolded, this investigative RPG surprised and delighted me at almost every turn with its complex world, fantastic dialogue, and ability to convey a constant struggle with the warring facets of one’s own mind," said Game Informer's Joe Juba in our official review of Disco Elysium. "Maybe you elect to refer to yourself as a “superstar cop” while sporting a pained grimace you cannot suppress. Maybe you break down crying while telling a young woman to wear a hat. Maybe you botch a sad karaoke song despite your best efforts. The sharp writing in exchanges like these made me laugh out loud, and the game does an amazing job remembering and referencing your previous deeds – even things that seem unimportant – which creates a sense of reactivity and consistency that few games can match."

We scored the game a big nine out of ten.

Check out the announcement trailer for Disco Elysium: The Final Cut here.

Sorry, this video is not available

      Products In This Article

Disco Elysium

Platform:

PC, Mac

Release Date:

October 15, 2019 (PC), April 27, 2020 (Mac)

Purchase
More Info

Disco Elysium: The Final Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

March 30, 2021 (PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Stadia, PC), October 12, 2021 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

