
  Elden Ring: How To Find Malenia, Mohg, And Draglonlord Placidusax






            Elden Ring has enormous amounts of content hidden away that are quite easy to miss. While the game challenges players to explore extensively, missing a giant area or super boss can be rough. We’ve got you covered! Obviously, there are tons of spoilers here, so if you want to do your own digging, leave immediately! I mean it, get out of here! Again, spoiler warning turn back now!

How To Find Malenia, Blade of Miquella

If you made it to the end of the game and wondered where one of the story trailer’s top characters was, she’s hidden away quite well, inside a sprawling legacy dungeon. She’s the best fight in the game and an incredibly serious challenge. To find her, first, you’ll need the two halves of the secret Haligtree medallion. The first half may be the toughest to find, located in Liurnia of the Lakes in the southwest corner. Inside the village there you’ll find a checkpoint site of grace. From that site of grace, follow the hill up until you get to the perfumer enemy. Take them out, then continue up the hill until you find a barrel/pot. Hit the pot once, and someone will pop out! Exhaust his dialogue, and then you’ll have one half of the secret Haligtree medal!

The second half of the medal cannot be acquired until much later on the critical path after you unlock the snowy mountains. In the north of this area is a mini-dungeon that’s hard to miss, Castle Sol. You’ll have to bust up a fairly high-level commander boss in there, and after doing so, head behind him and grab the other half of the medallion out of the chest. With the two halves combined, take these to the lift you originally used to access the snowy area and choose the “use secret medal” option instead. You’ve just unlocked an entirely new outdoor area!

This space is vast and contains tons of great endgame materials, so be sure to explore the entire thing. However, our focus here is on making it to Ordina, Liturgical Town up in the north, where you’ll have to solve an Evergaol puzzle in order to open up the path to the Haligtree. To complete it, enter the Evergaol gate in the town and be careful - extremely dangerous enemies lurk inside, use your best skills to dodge or defeat them while lighting four lamps atop towers. Once lit, return to the normal world and the gateway to the Haligtree will be open.

Now the fun begins! The Haligtree is a vast late-game legacy dungeon filled with danger, but also huge rewards and a treasure trove of endgame resources. Proceed through the tree until you reach Malenia herself, the final boss of this area. Should you prove victorious, you’ll collect her rune and unlock several cool new toys, including a sweet katana that takes 48 dex to wield. You can pick that up, and her entire armor set, at the Two Fingers room inside the Roundtable Hold. Malenia is my favorite boss in any From Software game, enjoy the battle.

How To Find Mohg, Lord of Blood

Ready to take on a cult? Mohg and his disciples are well hidden, attempting to subvert the world from the shadows. Interestingly enough, the easiest way to find Mohg is to head to the secret area via the Haligtree medallion, as detailed above. In that vast snowy plains, you’ll find a church nestled near the top of the zone. From there, locate the giant bell ringing rock thing and head down the zone line, roughly whereabouts you can see on the map above (may be off by a bit since there’s no actual marker). There will be a blood acolyte that attacks you, dispatch him and you will find a teleporter that takes you deep underground to the headquarters of Mohg himself.

While this isn’t quite big enough to be a legacy dungeon, there are numerous treasures to collect on the way to the Blood Lord. At the top of the zone, you’ll find Mohg. Defeat him for some exciting new options to add to your repertoire!

How To Find Draglonlord Placidusax

Nestled away in the floating Crumbling Farum Azula lies the lord of all dragons. Possibly the coolest dragon in any From Software game, Dragonlord Placidusax is off the beaten path and incredibly easy to miss. From the checkpoint displayed here (Beside the Great Bridge), you’re going to want to take the elevator back down and carefully jump down the nearby rocks. It’s going to take quite a few jumps, and you will find yourself on a rather large platform that doesn’t look to have anything out of the ordinary on it. You will see some skeletons in graves – position yourself over the conspicuously empty grave that lacks a skeleton, then lay down in it. You’ll be teleported to the Dragonlord Placidusax fight. This fight is a visual spectacle, that’s for sure. If you manage to win the day, you can get a very cool sword. For those of you who have embraced the dragon powers of faith builds in Elden Ring, you’ll also gain access to a potent spell that lets you melt your opponents with golden breath. 

How To Find Astel, Naturalborn of the Void

Space bugs? In my Elden Ring? It’s more likely than you think. For this one, you’ll have to beat Rennala at the Academy or Raya Lucaria first to unlock her tower, accessible in the backyard of the Carian Manor (You know, the haunted place with all the Wallmasters). Once unlocked, a portal at the top will send you deep underground, eventually leading to a lake absolutely full of scarlet rot. Brave the vicious poison all the way to the end, and take a coffin at the end of a cliff to end up in Astel’s arena. This boss’s sweet loot includes a magical flail that manifests void energy and weapon ash that can be attached to greataxes, colossal weapons, and the like – which lets loose an absurd void area-of-effect!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

