
  Genshin Impact Codes For Free Primogems And More






            With Xiao coming soon, it's a sure thing that you're going to want coffers filled with resources to take advantage of the new banners in patch 1.3 We'll be hanging out and enjoying the sights, the sounds, and the smells of freshly cooked food in the streets of Liyue as we experiment with a new tower defense offering and get to do more quests with our masked companion Xiao. I have a feeling that prior to the big drop of a next region, Xiao is going to quickly rise to the top ranks of Genshin popularity.

Xiao strikes me as a kind of Boba Fett character, where he makes a few awesome but minor appearances early and then becomes a character worthy of his own series later. Anyway, gift codes! Genshin Impact regularly releases codes that can give you gold, primogems, books, and more. Obviously, our big issue of concern is the primogems right now, we'll be pulling hard on the Xiao banner. What's a banner? What are primogems? Check out our gacha beginner's guide to find out.

Anyway, on to the gift codes. These rotate often, but there are almost always a few going around to track down. To get the rewards from these codes, you need to enter them on the Genshin Impact website. You can navigate there right here. They won't work if you try to enter them in the in-game shop or anything! These codes were tested on PC, so you many have issues with them depending on your platform. While these codes are current as of this posting, new codes often rotate in and out, keeping players hunting for new ones!

GSIMPTQ125

153YuSaenh

GENSHINGIFT

Cuupmbjsvd

One important strategy to get the 5-star roster you want without pulling out your wallet is to conserve your primogems from patch to patch and then spend them all when a character you want hits the banner. With Xiao, this will be the first time I spend primogems since Venti's original release. Inevitably, future patches will have characters even cooler than Xiao, which I know sounds impossible right now, but I expect some incredible characters to join the crew when the next giant region patch comes out.

"Genshin Impact is a whimsical, wondrous land dripping with unbridled charm and appeal, combining a ridiculously compelling reward loop with unfettered, continuous discovery," I said in my Game Informer review, scoring the game a big 9.25. "In this world I felt like a child visiting theme park for the first time — dazzled, mesmerized, and completely swept away. I only wish the shimmering glow wasn’t marred by a ghoulish monetization model, but that’s something I’m willing to overlook for my ticket to this fascinating realm."

            .

Daniel Tack
PC Editor
Daniel has been at Game Informer for seven years, specializing in multiplayer titles and PC games. When he's not speculating on the future of the industry, you can find him exploring vast online worlds — and probably streaming the experience.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Genshin Impact

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

September 28, 2020 (PlayStation 4, PC, iOS, Android), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

