
  Get To Know Your Team In Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare






The crew aboard your capital starship Retribution is diverse and varied, hailing from many different nations and backgrounds. You interact with these personalities from mission to mission after completing a main story task or side-mission, and see the world change around you.  As Captain Reyes, you also have a much closer bond with some of your immediate squadmates. Here are some of the major players that you get to know as you attempt to push back the looming threat of the Settlement Defense Front. 

Lt. Reyes
You play as Lt. Reyes during the campaign, so you view the events unfolding from his perspective. As a lieutenant in Special Combat Air Recon (SCARS), you are quickly moved into a position of leadership as the captain of the Retribution. As a leader, you are forced to make decisions for the good of the mission and not necessarily the same choices you would have made as a soldier. Your role as captain differs from the traditional distant command role from the flight deck or headquarters, as the importance of the missions at hand call for every ounce of your skill to be used on the ground and in space alongside the rest of your specialized team. In this Call of Duty, you’re not just a grunt following orders or listening to the bellowing commands of your squad leader – you are the one issuing them.
Admiral Raines
Raines is the mentor of our protagonist Lt. Reyes. No stranger to hard choices in the position of command, Raines again provides some valuable insight and advice to Reyes during his swift transition to the ranks of command. Raines isn’t often seen on the battlefield with a weapon in hand, that all goes out the window when Raines – and many other senior commanders from around the world – are shoved into combat when the Settlement Defense Front attacks the annual Fleet Week parade in Geneva, Switzerland. Raines is no stranger to the tough choices that Reyes will face as the leader of the Retribution.

Sgt. Omar
Sgt. Omar leads the Marines aboard the Retribution and is a grizzled combat veteran. His no-nonsense hard demeanor is a bit of a cliché, but he’s all about getting the job done and getting it done right, with whatever tools are available. Omar butts heads with Reyes as they don't always see eye-to-eye in every situation, but there’s no one else that you’d want having your back. Tough as nails and pragmatic, Omar gets things done. In addition to being a hardheaded soldier, Omar has a personal vendetta against the SDF – his family has suffered at their hands.

Lt. Salter
As a Lt. alongside Reyes in SCARS, Salter and Reyes have an unbreakable bond. Salter has some trouble adjusting to Reyes’ new command position, as they’ve often plodded on through whatever mission was in front of them as equals. That tension doesn’t change their relationship, but it does add a bit of a challenge as they interact throughout the game. Salter is an action-first, fill-out-the-paperwork later soldier, and can make risky or off-script choices if she thinks that’s the right way – or the only way – to get things done.

ETH.3n
ETH.3n, or Enhanced Tactical Humanoid 3rd Revision, is built to be the perfect soldier and is a one-of-a-kind item. ETH.3n stronger, faster, and tougher than any human and he comes with programs that allow him to emulate human empathy. A mix of humor and intelligence allows ETH.3n to attempt to bond with human soldiers much like real troops would on the battlefield, and although he initially finds himself an outcast, especially among Omar’s hard-nosed Marines, ETH.3n’s value to the squad is almost unquestionable.
Our exclusive coverage on Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare will continue all throughout June, so keep checking the hub for deep dives into the weapons, characters, and interviews as we journey to the stars with Infinity Ward's new take on the longstanding series.

