
  July Cover Revealed – Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare






With its annual installments, the Call of Duty franchise is constantly tackling the challenge of reinventing itself while retaining the strong elements that put it on the first-person shooter map. In Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, Infinity Ward preserves the strong ground combat elements from past games while also bringing bold new changes to bear by taking the battle into space.
We recently spent several days at Infinity Ward, taking an in-depth look at features, mechanics, weapons, vehicles, and more. Our 12-page cover story examines how this upcoming Call of Duty title makes some big changes to the standard campaign formula, all within a framework that keeps the longtime fans of the franchise in mind. Players take the role of Lt. Reyes as he assumes a position of command to take on the threat of the Settlement Defense Force, a merciless opponent bent on galactic domination.
Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare is releasing on November 4 on Xbox One, PS4, and PC. Click the image below to see the full cover, front and back.

Our coverage trailer and digital edition featuring much more information on the game will be available on June 13.
In addition to all the Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare info, we have an interview with Warcraft director Duncan Jones, a fresh look at Deus Ex: Mankind Divided, new details on Persona 5, and an interview with Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot about the big year ahead. There are also some cool things in store that we can't talk about... yet.
Print subscribers can watch for their issue to arrive in the next week or two, but you can read the full digital issue on June 13 on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting on June 13. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Our exclusive coverage on Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare will continue all throughout June, so keep checking the hub for deep dives into the weapons, characters, vehicles, and interviews as we journey to the stars with Infinity Ward's new take on the longstanding series.

