
  Lock And Load With The Weapons Of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare






Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare features more weapons than any other title in the franchise to date. These include diverse offerings from a variety of specialized manufacturers as well as powerful new auxiliary options like grenades that create zero-gravity pockets, powerful “riot shields”, spider-esque seeker grenades that can run along walls before identifying and obliterating their targets, and even using your grappling hook in zero-gravity conditions as a weapon to take out targets. You can expect to see all kinds of takes on assault rifles, submachine guns, sniper rifles, shotguns, and more.
You wield the weaponry of the future in Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, but it’s not the out-of-this-world stuff that’s prevalent in science fiction fare. Infinity Ward wants to keep things rooted in reality, so while there are awesome energy weapons and some guns that do incredible things, it’s all conceivable innovation that the future could bring. Don’t expect alien technology or anything like that, but do expect some pretty incredible takes on non-ballistic beam weapons. Here’s a rundown of some of the main manufacturers and their specialties.

Kendall Ballistics: This is the most traditional manufacturer, creating military-grade fare that will be immediately recognizable to Call of Duty fans and weapon gurus. These are more like futuristic takes on weapons that are even available today, like a M4 outfitted with an OLED GPS display. 
Mashimo: For lack of a better term, Mashimo is the “budget” energy weapon manufacturer. That doesn’t make their guns any less effective or desirable, though. These are high-energy, fast-firing weapons that can support multiple functionality, like a submachine-gun that you can tilt to the side to let loose a shotgun blast. Because you’re using energy, you can unleash a stream of gunfire and then just unload the rest of your pack for some close-range punch. Energy presents interesting ammo management choices as well, as you can expend a magazine, then place your power cell into your recharge pack to start getting extra value.
Fujiwara: If Mashimo is the budget car, Fujiwara is the Ferrari.  These are high class energy weapons with extravagant designs and elaborate options. We'll see some of the coolest and most “out there” weapon designs from this manufacturer, including the MOD2. It's a submachine gun effective at mid/long ranges that you can rotate and pull in half to turn into dual pistols, perfect for when the fight gets close.

EDI/Atomic Dynamics: These two manufacturers focus on experimental weapons and secret prototypes, so when you’re looking for the heavy hitters these are the go-to options.  EDI’s variants are high quality stuff, while Atomic Dynamics works with more raw materials, yielding guns with lots of exposed parts. When you’re dealing with rail guns and charge weaponry, it’s all about substance over style.
As always, there will be a wide variety of other customization options for these weapons including stocks and sights.
Our exclusive coverage on Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare will continue all throughout June, so keep checking the hub for deep dives into the weapons, characters, and interviews as we journey to the stars with Infinity Ward's new take on the longstanding series.

