
  October Cover Revealed – Dark Souls III






The Dark Souls series has had a fascinating rise in popularity over the years, spurred on from the success of Demon’s Souls and other dark fantasy From Software titles that came before it. Players hungry for a challenge, elaborate environments, and some of the most interesting characters and enemies in all of gaming have everything to be excited about as director Hidetaka Miyazaki returns to the Dark Souls series for this upcoming third installment. 
In the October issue of Game Informer, we pick From Software president Hidetaka Miyazaki’s brain regarding everything from game design to the culinary arts. We also look into how Bloodborne has influenced Dark Souls III, and discuss which aspects of the Souls games are making it into the third game – and which are being removed. We’ve got new details on the magic system and more info on the features that make up the core of Dark Souls III.
Sorry, this video is not available
Dark Souls III doesn’t have a release date, but it’s expected to arrive in early 2016 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Click on the image below for a larger version.

In addition to our dive into Dark Souls III, we also go hands on with Xenoblade Chronicles X, chronicle the hottest games of Gamescom, explore the strong female characters of Witcher 3, and investigate the eSports performance enhancing drugs controversy. The rest of the issue is packed with other cool games like World of Warcraft: Legion, Mafia III, Xcom 2, Scalebound, NBA 2K16, and more. You even get a chance to vote on the next Marvel Heroes 2016 character coming to the game, so be sure to check that out next week.
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next few weeks, but you'll be able to access it next Tuesday (September 8) if you subscribe 
digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad,Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting September 8. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here..
Keep visiting the site throughout the month, as we’ll be rolling out several interesting Dark Souls features, including more insight into the mind of Miyazaki, a special Let’s Play of the original game, and more. Click on the banner below to visit our Dark Souls III hub and follow our coverage.

