
  Super Replay - Demon's Souls Episode Ten






            The journey nears its end. A few areas are all that remain for Marcus to take on before we close out the adventure through Demon's Souls. Can Marcus triumph against some of the most lethal zones and bosses in this fiery finale? Find out today at 2 PM CST!

In 2009, From Software changed everything with Demon’s Souls on the PlayStation 3. The challenging action RPG would go on to lead the way for a critical subgenre with the Souls games and Bloodborne. With the PS5, Demon’s Souls found a new home with Bluepoint’s remake of the original title. Once upon a time, we began a Demon’s Souls journey that didn’t last long. This time, we’re going through it all. Today, Super Replay returns to its frenzied Friday slot with a new adventure featuring a full playthrough of Demon’s Souls. This Super Replay is sure to be extra hot!

Join Andrew Reiner, Dan Tack, and Marcus Stewart for a blazing run through this classic game. Marcus’s first full playthrough is sure to be full of thrills, chills, and fire. Yes, fire. We’re gonna be munching on all kinds of ridiculously fiery treats during the playthrough to really up the stakes. Everyone dies numerous times in Souls games, but what if you put the added pressure of some scorching zingers on top? 

When our fearless champion perishes, the action gets amped up to new levels as we consume some of the hottest fare commercially available. How far will the crew go into hot challenge land as they travel through Boletaria and beyond? It’s going to be spicy, and you don't want to miss it! 

The action begins at 2 PM CST today, with a 2-hour block of delicious Demon’s Souls. Will Marcus fall prey to the twists and turns of the game’s opening? Demon’s Souls doesn’t mess around, and the levels can often be more maddening and dangerous than the bosses that would later come to be the highlights of From Software experiences. 

Can you imagine the sheer terror as Marcus enters the Valley of Defilement for the first time? We might not make it out of this one, gang. This is sure to be one of the most epic Super Replays of all time, so come join us on Twitch for all the action. Can’t make an episode? No problem – the episodes will be up on our YouTube page and easy to browse a day or so after we’re live.

            .

Daniel Tack
Senior Editor
Daniel has been at Game Informer for seven years, specializing in multiplayer titles and PC games. When he's not speculating on the future of the industry, you can find him exploring vast online worlds — and probably streaming the experience.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Demon's Souls (PS5)

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

November 12, 2020

Purchase
More Info

