Kid Icarus: Uprising - 3DS


  Hands-On With Kid Icarus: Uprising




Kid Icarus: Uprising became one of the most anticipated games for the
 3DS thanks to its ambitious graphics and surprise reveal at last year's
 E3. Nintendo fans have been calling for the return of the Icarus 
franchise for years, and by year's end they'll have their chance to once more step
 into the role of Pit in a sprawling adventure that features combat in 
the air and on land.
The E3 demo that's playable at Nintendo's booth features three 
levels: "The Return of Palutena," "Magnus and the Dark Lord," and "Heads
 of the Hewdraw." I had the chance to play two levels before a Nintendo 
rep tapped me on the shoulder and said my appointment was over. A little disappointing, but I still got a good bit of 
playtime in with the game.
At outset of the demo, you pick one of the levels and then proceed to
 a weapon select screen. I'm pretty sure these aren't the final menus of
 the game; this demo seemed made to get E3 attendees into the action as 
fast as possible. There were a few weapons to choose from, ranging from 
traditional melee weapons like the Blade to ranged projectiles like the 
Orbitars, which fire two separate energy blasts. Others include Bow, 
Cannon, Arm (creative name!), Claws, and Palm (which allows you to shoot
 energy shots directly from your hand).
The control scheme is definitely different, and I'm not sure I love 
it. Basic movement is governed by the analog stick. You can also flick 
the analog quickly to dash during on-land battles. Shooting is done 
through the left trigger, and aiming and (on land) camera control is 
done with the stylus and touch screen. In the air, it plays a bit like a
 Space Harrier style shooter. Pit moves around in the foreground as you 
aim the reticule with the touch pad. The aerial levels are basically on 
rails, so your only movement is to dodge oncoming attacks or obstacles. 
In these sections, I thought the control scheme worked fairly well. 
Having the touch screen aiming lets you quickly pinpoint targets, almost
 like playing an FPS with a keyboard and mouse. The flying sequences 
also dazzle the eye. While the 3DS definitely isn't pushing HD visuals, 
the 3D effects are very striking while in flight. This is the first time
 I really felt like the 3D effects in a 3DS game were adding something 
to the experience for me.
On land, things get a bit dicier. The basic control scheme remains 
the same -- movement with the analog, aiming with the stylus. However, 
the camera control is problematic. You swipe the stylus left or right to move the camera, swinging the angle of view somewhat haphazardly. It's definitely not exact, and can be frustrating if you're used to the one-to-one camera controls common in most games. Overall, the on land combat was similar to in the air, but not as exciting. The one boss battle I had on land, against a two headed flaming dog called the Twin Bellows, was a fairly standard arena battle, with the boss going through all the standard charge/attack/run around cycles common in gaming.
While I can't judge the game based on this small slice, I do hope the team manages to figure out some of the control problems and creates some land-based levels that match aerial combat.

