
                                          Jak and Daxter Collection
                  				 Review


  Jak And Daxter's PS2 Adventures Shine In New HD Collection




Reviewed on PlayStation 3

Also on
PlayStation Vita

Publisher
Sony Computer Entertainment

Developer
Naughty Dog

Release
June

Stuck between Naughty Dog’s early icon Crash Bandicoot and the 
large-scale spectacle of the Uncharted series, the Jak and Daxter games 
are transitional works for the developer in many ways. While still 
falling squarely in the action/platforming genre, the series was driven 
by a restless sense of innovation, evolving from the standard ‘90s 
collection-driven design to Jak 3’s apocalyptic open-world that 
suggested what Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome might have looked like if conceived by Pixar.
I
 played all three Jak games when they were released, but it was 
instructive to play all three again in quick succession. The first thing
 I noticed was how different in both tone and design Jak 2 and 3 are 
from the original, which seems to be cut from a different cloth. While 
pushing the boundaries of the genre in terms of scale, graphics (for its
 day), and technology, Jak and Daxter doesn’t stray that far from the 
template of ‘90s Rare games like Banjo-Kazooie and Donkey Kong 64. You 
wander around talking to villagers, getting tasks ranging from simple 
fetch quests to longer-form platforming episodes, earning power cells 
and precursor orbs along the way. It doesn’t feel as innovative as I 
remember, but it’s still a tour de force of craftsmanship packed with 
engaging platforming levels, boss battles, and some (occasionally 
problematic) vehicle segments that deliver variety.
With Jak 2, 
Naughty Dog blew up its formula with an epic adventure that took obvious
 inspiration from Rockstar’s Grand Theft Auto III. Now, the open city of
 Haven serves as the hub world, with Jak and Daxter riding hoverbikes 
from location to location to engage in platforming levels that take 
place just outside the city walls.
The series also went through a 
dramatic shift in tone in Jak 2. The previously voiceless main character
 was transformed into an angry young man, complete with a new soulpatch 
look that made him look like a refugee from a turn of the century metal 
band. Jak had been the subject of experiments that injected him with 
volatile Dark Eco, transforming him into a hulking, gray “Dark Jak.” The
 story and tone of Jak 2 is continued in Jak 3, making the original now 
feel more like a lighthearted prologue to the action series. Jak’s more 
serious persona seems a bit silly in retrospect; thankfully, the 
wisecracking Daxter is always around to lighten the mood with a 
well-placed comedic remark.
Jak 3 is basically a restatement and 
expansion of the strengths of Jak 2. Now banished to the wastelands 
outside Haven City, Jak eventually makes his way back to set things 
right, but not before experiencing a varied and grand adventure. Minor 
improvements to control and gameplay (like expanded weapons functions) 
abound, and the dune buggy vehicles you pilot in the deserts are much 
more satisfying than any of the hoverbikes in Haven.
It’s an 
attractive update of a trilogy that, in many ways, marked the end of the
 action/platform era. Nintendo carries on, but the genre is now a niche 
market. The Jak series (along with its spiritual sister series Ratchet 
& Clank) is also the last time that the platformer seemed to really 
be engaged in the larger conversation of game development. These games 
were intended to be blockbusters, to compete with the Grand Theft Autos 
of the world. While there’s been a platformer in recent years, most of 
those games are looking back to the simpler 8- and 16-bit eras.
Naughty
 Dog’s work in this franchise endures thanks to great characters, finely
 tuned gameplay, and a unceasing inventiveness. Though some aspects of 
the games are dated now, the Jak games stand up as epic adventures.

9.25

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptCollect three great PS2-era platformers with updated HD graphics, 3D, and trophies
GraphicsWhile the technology is dated, the fresh HD coat of paint helps. The great character and art designs remain timeless
SoundGreat voice acting and subtle and intelligent scores courtesy of DEVO’s Mark Mothersbaugh
PlayabilityEach successive game adds new depth and variety to the core platforming mechanics
EntertainmentWhile the Jak series shows its age in some respects, it remains one of the most ambitious and well-executed platforming franchises ever made
ReplayModerate

      Products In This Article

Jak and Daxter Collection

Platform:

PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita

Release Date:

June

Purchase
More Info

