
  The San Andreas Flight School Update Comes To Grand Theft Auto Online Tomorrow






Tomorrow Rockstar Games is releasing the San Andreas Flight School Update for Grand Theft Auto Online tomorrow. In the announcement trailer below, retired marine leadership performance coach and reenactment enthusiast J.T Boyd explains how the flight school allows you to experience the thrill of being a patriotic hero without putting in real time or effort. 
The new update to Grand Theft Auto V’s online multiplayer includes new land and air vehicles, new aerial solo challenges as well as other challenges, missions, customization options, and more. The update also introduces increased payouts from harder missions, and in-game cash bonuses for playing missions with others.  
Sorry, this video is not available
As the trailer above demonstrates, the San Andreas Flight School update is all about putting the life back into your midlife crisis by getting in touch with your manly-heroic patriot side. After all, it’s a fact: women love men in uniform who shower with other men and look moody while riding motorcycles. 
Grand Theft Auto V originally released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on September 17, 2013. At E3 it was announced that Rockstar’s massive open world game would be coming to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC, as well. For more on GTA Online, check out the last update, which was also preoccupied with hard-core American patriotism. If this update has you fired up to get back into GTA Online, try out these tips on how to survive in the rough world of Los Santos before you hop back in.

Our TakeWhenever Grand Theft Auto Online news surfaces, the immediate reaction is to bring up the long-delayed heist missions, which Rockstar recently apologized for. However, heists notwithstanding, Rockstar is doing an admirable job of keeping its ambitious online mode going. This update is very much in keeping with the satiric tone Grand Theft Auto is famous for, and the new features look like they’ll be fun. More Los Santos is never a bad thing.

