
  All The Big News From The Game Awards 2020






            Even though it couldn't be held with an audience present, The Game Awards was still a spectacle this year.  With celebrity appearances, new game reveals, and (of course) awards, viewers had a lot to take in over the event's three-hour runtime. But for those who didn't watch the live broadcast online – or don't have several hours to devote to catching up –  we've compiled the biggest stories of the night into this single, handy list.

But if you're more interested in the awards than the gaming news, then you should check out our full rundown of the winners! 

Sephiroth is coming to Smash!
Sea of Solitude is coming to Nintendo Switch
Devolver announced a retro game called Loop Hero
Tchia was revealed, and it is a tropical exploration game
The puzzle/adventure Shady Part of Me is ... available now!
Square Enix showed off the gameplay in Nier Replicant
Hood: Outlaws & Legends releases May 10 for PS5, Xbox Series X/S, and PC
Turtle Rock is back in the zombie game with Back 4 Blood
Perfect Dark is coming back (!?) with developer The Initiative at the helm
Glen Schofield (one of the minds behind Dead Space) is making a new horror game called The Callisto Protocol
We got a brand new look at the next Dragon Age game
Fullbright (Gone Home, Tacoma) is making a new game called Open Roads
You can drive that cool Cyberpunk 2077 car in Forza Horizon 4
Disco Elysium's console version is coming to PS5, PS4, and PC in March (with more stuff!), and other platforms follow later
If you want to play Scavengers, the beta is available now
Warframe is getting some Unreal Tournament weapons
Crimson Desert was revealed, and it looks like an ambitious fantasy RPG
Evil Dead: The Game launches in 2021
We saw gameplay from Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War's Season One content
An atmospheric adventure game called Season is coming to PS5
Not only was Ark II announced, but the game stars Vin Diesel.
Super Meat Boy Forever is releasing this month
Fall Guys' winter content looks pretty cute
Josef Fares gave us our first look at gameplay from It Takes Two
F.I.S.T. stands for "Forged In Shadow Torch"
Housemarque's Returnal his PS5 on March 19
Evil West made its debut. It's got vampire-hunting cowboys
Capcom released a new trailer for Monster Hunter Rise, with a demo in January
Among Us is getting a new airship map (and a Geoff Keighley mask?)
Bandai Namco showed off a new trailer for Scarlet Nexus
Elite Dangerous: Odyssey got new on-foot gameplay footage
Sega's turn-based Humankind releases in April
Outriders' new trailer focuses on survival
Ghosts 'N Goblins Resurrection was announced
The Elder Scrolls Online is going to Oblivion
The League of Legends spin-off, Ruined King, had its gameplay debut
Yep, Master Chief is coming to Fortnite. And so is Blood Gulch!
We got a tantalizing glimpse of the next Mass Effect. It was a big surprise!

That's a big list – and it isn't every single announcement and trailer. You can see how good we are at seeing the future by checking out our 2020 predictions for The Game Awards and comparing them to the final results! How did the show stack up to your expectations this year? Let us know in the comments below!

