
                                          Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective
                  				 Review


  Life After Death Isn’t All It’s Cracked Up To Be




Reviewed on DS

Also on
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Publisher
Capcom

Developer
Capcom

Release
January 11, 2011

Rating
Teen

Because they’re light on traditional gameplay, interactive adventure 
games need compelling stories, characters, and puzzles in order to work.
 Getting this formula right is what made the Ace Attorney series 
successful, and getting it wrong is what makes Ghost Trick a failure. 
Considering
 that Ghost Trick is the latest project from Ace Attorney creator Shu 
Takumi, the game’s bizarre premise shouldn’t come as a surprise. You 
play as Sissel, a recently deceased spirit who can manipulate inanimate 
objects and travel four minutes into the past. Combining these two 
abilities allows you to participate in Rube Goldberg-style setups where 
Sissel flips, opens, and rotates various objects in order to save people
 from their imminent deaths.
The concept is cool, but I was 
disappointed to discover that Ghost Trick doesn’t have nearly the same 
charm as the Ace Attorney series. Sissel falls flat as a hero, the story
 uses convenient amnesia as a constant crutch, and a series of 
predictable twists deflate the overall mystery. In a game that depends 
on a strong narrative to keep players engaged, these shortcomings are 
difficult to forgive.
To make matters worse, Ghost Trick also 
stumbles in its puzzle design. Instead of allowing for the 
trial-and-error that leads to “ah-ha” moments of discovery, many 
situations have rigid solutions that you must execute with precise 
timing. If you miss your one chance to possess a man riding by on a 
bicycle, or hit a tennis ball prematurely, you’ll have to go back to a 
checkpoint. The checkpoints aren’t well placed, either; expect to 
re-watch scenes (though you can skip through dialogue) and repeat 
actions just to get another shot at the problem areas.
Though the 
game misses some important marks, it isn’t a completely lost cause. The 
character animations are incredibly fluid and impressive, and several of
 their conversations are good for a chuckle. Unfortunately, these 
scattered bits of life aren’t enough to bring Sissel’s adventure back 
from the dead.

6

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptSolve a mystery and save people’s lives by possessing random stuff
GraphicsThe animation is phenomenal, and the stylized art suits the tone well
SoundA few cool background tunes, but nothing that held my interest
PlayabilityCrummy checkpoints discourage you from experimenting with the puzzles
EntertainmentA few bright spots aren’t enough to make Ghost Trick worthwhile
ReplayModerate

      Products In This Article

Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, DS, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

January 11, 2011 (DS), February 2, 2012 (iOS), June 30, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC), March 28, 2024 (Android)

Purchase
More Info

