
                                          God of War III
                  				 Review


  Kratos Brings Down The Mountain




Reviewed on PlayStation 3

Publisher
Sony Computer Entertainment

Developer
Sony Online Entertainment

Release
March 16, 2010

Rating
Mature

            Words like “visceral” and “brutal” are used to describe many violent 
games these days, but they wield the fullness of their meaning in God of
 War III. No other terms so completely convey the gut-wrenching 
sensation of eviscerating a mythical beast, decapitating a deity, or 
carving up a titan. While moments like these have defined Kratos over 
the years, God of War III isn’t amazing just because it’s violent; it’s 
amazing because it conveys these experiences in ways you have never seen
 before. 
Kratos’ stylishly elaborate combos and vicious 
context-sensitive kills have been adapted and emulated many times, 
making the video game landscape a bloodier and more epic place. In the 
years since God of War II, while others were chasing the shadow of 
Kratos’ fighting style, the team at Sony Santa Monica was elevating the 
scale and intensity to a level that once again proves Kratos is the 
undisputed king of the genre.
Something awesome is constantly 
happening in God of War III. Monsters slink from the shadows, titans 
break through walls, and gods launch divine assaults – and it’s all 
woven seamlessly into the gameplay. Just when you think you know what’s 
coming next, you’ll encounter a unique sequence or mechanic – if only to
 be used once – just to keep the experience fresh. Even the 
context-sensitive kills take on a new cinematic life, especially during 
the grisly deaths of the bosses (each of which will leave you picking 
your jaw up off the floor).
God of War III recaptures the one 
thing that God of War II was missing for me; it forced me to once again 
reconsider what I thought was possible for a video game to accomplish. 
I’m hesitant to ruin any of the moments here (spoiler: Kratos kills a 
lot of dudes), but let me put it this way: Remember the fight against 
the Colossus of Rhodes at the beginning of God of War II? At least three
 moments are just as astounding in God of War III, with cinematic camera
 work even more impressive than Naughty Dog’s feats with Uncharted 2.
God
 of War III takes the biggest strides forward in its cinematic 
presentation, but the nuts and bolts of the combat are also more 
refined. If you’ve played the previous games in the series, you’ll find 
everything you love about Kratos’ blade-slinging style intact, but even 
better than before thanks to the seamless integration of items. This new
 equipment (usually ripped from the dead fingers of a fallen adversary) 
allows you to dash, stun enemies, and perform ranged attacks – and they 
all draw from a rapidly recharging power source. This gives you the 
freedom to use these versatile tools instead of conserving them, opening
 new combo possibilities. Used in conjunction with the sweet new weapons
 (I love the Cestus!) and maneuvers (I love the ranged grab!), these 
additions make Kratos feel like an even more fluid and capable 
combatant.
The only area where God of War III didn’t blow away my 
expectations is the story. Previously, Kratos was driven by a thirst for
 vengeance against a single target – a concept that kept the narrative 
focused. In God of War III, that singular purpose is diluted by the 
number of characters, agendas, and objectives on the playing field at 
once. The plot isn’t bad or difficult to follow, but it also doesn’t 
have any standout revelations or developments; Kratos hunts down the 
gods, kills them, and steps over the corpse to reach his next target 
until Olympus is in shambles. It isn’t a major problem, however, because
 the real joy isn’t in the events themselves, but rather in the 
astonishing ways those events unfold.
The fury, destruction, and 
murdered gods – it’s all been leading up to this. When I first took up 
Kratos’ blades back in 2005, I thought I was embarking on a simple quest
 for vengeance. After leaving a trail of bodies spanning four games and 
three systems, that quest has finally reached its end. Not even in my 
wildest dreams could I have imagined such a powerful, cinematic, and 
breathtaking conclusion to the saga of the Ghost of Sparta.

10

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptFinish the bloody tale of Kratos in an unbelievably epic way
GraphicsThe graphics and camera work are among the very best gaming has to offer
SoundAs always, the music is excellent. The voice cast is the real surprise, including the likes of Malcolm McDowell, Rip Torn, and Kevin Sorbo
PlayabilityCombat is fluid and responsive, and the context-sensitive sequences are even better without the buttons overlaid on top of the action
EntertainmentYou’ll pounce from one explosive moment to the next as Kratos delivers his grim brand of justice to the denizens of Olympus
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

God of War III

Platform:

PlayStation 3

Release Date:

March 16, 2010

Purchase
More Info

