
  May Cover Revealed – Final Fantasy XV






The Final Fantasy name holds incredible significance for role-playing fans. Even though recent installments are divisive, no one can deny the impact this series has had on the RPG genre and gaming as a whole. However significant those contributions may be, Square Enix is not content to let this franchise’s legacy remain in the past. The team behind Final Fantasy XV – led by director Hajime Tabata – recognizes the missteps in the series’ history, but is working toward a bright future. With action-focused combat, open-world technology, and a renewed focus on characters and storytelling, Square Enix is hoping to reclaim its position at the forefront of the RPG genre.

This title has been on gamers’ radar since it was first announced as Final Fantasy Versus XIII a decade ago. Fans just got a flood of new information last week at the Uncovered: Final Fantasy XV event…but the surprises don’t stop there.

In our massive 20-page cover story, we offer an even more in-depth look at the game with exclusive new details. We spent a week in Tokyo visiting Square Enix’s offices with unprecedented access, playing the game for hours and interviewing the creative minds making it happen. We talk to the team about everything fans want to know: exploration, narrative, combat, summons, and more. Whether your enthusiasm for Final Fantasy is new, old, or even lapsed, this story is a must-read.

Final Fantasy XV is releasing on September 30 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Click the image below to see the full cover, front and back.

For a brief look at what the month's online coverage entails, check out the trailer below or watch and share it on YouTube.

Sorry, this video is not available

The good stuff doesn’t stop with Final Fantasy XV. The issue also includes a big feature on The Banner Saga 2, Stoic Studios’ follow-up to its acclaimed Norse strategy title. Read our chat with Clueless Gamer’s Aaron Bleyaert about guiding Conan O’Brien through the world of gaming. We also examine the current VR landscape (including Sony's PSVR on the horizon), rank the top 10 Final Fantasy villains, and take a close look at upcoming games like Uncharted 4 and No Man's Sky.

Print subscribers can watch for their issue to arrive in the next week or two, but you can read the full digital issue later today on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

Our exclusive Final Fantasy XV coverage goes on throughout April, so keep checking our hub all month for features celebrating the past, present, and future of Final Fantasy. We dive into the characters and locations, interview the team, and get some new details out of Final Fantasy VII Remake producer Yoshinori Kitase. All that and more is on the way in the coming weeks, so click the banner below to visit our hub and check back regularly.

