
  September Cover Revealed – Dragon Age: Inquisition






The third installment of the Dragon Age franchise casts players as the head of the Inquisition, a recently resurrected organization charged with rooting out corruption and evil in the land of Thedas. As the game begins, the Inquisition has plenty to investigate. War, scheming, and political strife have left the major power groups in the Dragon Age universe unable to operate effectively, which is a problem when a hole opens in the sky and demons begin pouring out.  Players must fight back against the demonic threat while exploring a vast world and consolidating power for the growing Inquisition. Large and varied environments, customizable armor, and the return of multiple player races are just a few of the ways BioWare is addressing feedback from previous titles in order to shape a new future for the franchise.
Dragon Age: Inquisition is coming to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC. The E3 trailer provided more questions than answers for fans, and we have a whole month of exclusive features lined up covering everything from combat to character creation. To see what's in store, watch the coverage trailer below. 
Sorry, this video is not available
Click here to watch and share the YouTube version of our coverage trailer.
The September issue has plenty of attractions apart from Dragon Age: Inquisition. We have exclusive, in-depth features on the upcoming next-generation indie titles Below and Galak-Z: The Dimensional. 
We also interview Wasteland mastermind Brian Fargo, take a look at the upcoming battle between Skylanders and Disney Infinity, do a post-mortem on The Last of Us with Naughty Dog, and review the Android-powered Ouya console. Don't forget to check out the new previews for  Saints Row IV, Killzone: Shadow Fall, and Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix as well.
Check out the full cover image:

Print subscribers will receive their issue in the next couple weeks, but you don't need to wait that long for all of the info. Digital subscribers can access the issue now on PC/Mac, iPad, and Android, and through third-party apps on Google Play, Kindle, and Zinio tomorrow.  You can convert your print subscription to digital here, or go here to start a new subscription. You can also purchase individual issues or subscribe via the corresponding apps. 

We have a full month of Dragon Age: Inquisition online features lined up, from discussions about returning cast members to video conversations about the future of BioWare and RPGs in general. Click on the banner below to visit the hub, and keep checking back for additional content.

