
  Valheim Has Already Sold Over 3 Million Copies






            Valheim is everywhere right now. If you've been paying attention to gaming at all in the last few weeks, you've probably seen something about this unique Norse survival game. Valheim has been climbing the charts since its Early Access launch this month, and now developer Iron Gate Studio and publisher Coffee Stain have provided some impressive sales numbers to quantify the game's success.

According to an official press release, Valheim has now surpassed 3 million copies sold within just 16 days of its initial release. That kind of reception comes not only from the fact that the game is being well-received by players, but also from Valheim's popularity in the streaming realm. It is currently one of the most popular games on Twitch, with fans watching over 20 million total hours. 

These kinds of success stories are always fun to see. Valheim essentially came out of nowhere; it is made by a small team Sweden, and didn’t receive a ton of mainstream coverage prior to its Early Access launch. And yet, the folks at Iron Gate Studio clearly found a setting and a formula that resonates with players and viewers alike, because the game is currently the 78th best-reviewed game of all time on Steam.

Do you want to jump into Valheim to see what the all the buzz is about? Game Informer's own Dan Tack has been playing a lot of the game, and you can benefit from his experience by checking out any of his valuable guides to help answer your burning questions. Just choose from one of the many enticing topics below:

How To Get Started In Valheim
How To Cook Your Way Through The Cold Nights
How To Defeat The Bonemass And Get The Wishbone
How To Summon The Elder And Find The Swamp
How To Spend Your Gold, Rubies, And Amber

Have you been playing Valheim? Do you think it deserves all the praise? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

      Products In This Article

Valheim

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

2023

Purchase
More Info

