
                                          Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2
                  


  Several Different Editions Offer Special Items And Pre-Order Bonuses




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Publisher
Bandai Namco

Developer
Dimps

Release
October 25, 2016

Rating
Teen

Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 will have a variety of editions available on its October 25 release date for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on October 28 for PC users. Check out what's included in each edition as well as their prices. 

If you want to get ahead of the game and pre-order any version of Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2, you will receive a few pre-order bonuses with the day one edition. The first being an exclusive playable character from the new Dragon Ball Super Anime. You will also receive a Tao Pai Pai Stick vehicle so you can soar around just like the expert assassin himself.

The next step up is the Deluxe Edition, which grants access to the season pass for all four future DLC content packs along with the game. Future DLC is said to include playable characters, stages, skills, costumes, and more. 
Along with the season pass it comes with early access to the Future
Trunks character from the new Dragon Ball Super anime
series. The price for the deluxe version will be $89.99. 

Finally, for those who want even more Dragon Ball merch can go for the collectors edition. For $149.99 you get the Time Patroller’s Guide art book, exclusive Steelbook case,
game soundtrack, collector’s box, and a highly detailed 13” Goku Master
Stars Piece statue. 
Bandai Namco will also be providing the option for players to purchase the four DLC content packs separately for $9.99 each. The season pass will also be available separately for $29.99,  which includes early access to
the Future Trunks character from the deluxe edition. 
For more Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2, check out its announcement trailer from a few months ago, or some first-hand impressions when we got to take a look at its demonstration at E3.   

      Products In This Article

Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

October 25, 2016

Purchase
More Info

