
  Open Beta & Early Access Dates For Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn






Square Enix's reboot of its Final Fantasy MMO has been a long time coming, and players can get their hands on it this month.
The game's open beta occurs from August 17th through the 19th for both the PC and PlayStation 3, and if you've pre-ordered the game you can get early access to it on August 24.
Square Enix has also announced other goodies for the game, including bonuses depending on how long you've been a subscriber, a free companion app (Final Fantasy XIV: Libra Eorzea) that will come out a week after the game's launch, and a free play period (until September 9) for those that registered for Final Fantasy XIV 1.0.
Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn releases on August 27 for PlayStation 3 and PC.
For more on the game, here is the latest trailer, as well as what Kim thought about its showing at E3.

Our TakeIt will be interesting to see how this reboot goes over, but at a minimum I applaud Square Enix's perseverance with this project and its attempts to make something that tries to live up to the brand.

LOS ANGELES (Aug. 8, 2013) - SQUARE ENIX today announced the open beta test and early access dates for FINAL FANTASY® XIV: A Realm RebornTM. New users will be able to participate in the open beta test from August 17th through the 19th, both for Windows PC and PlayStation® 3 system, giving players the opportunity to dive in to the massive-scale RPG's final testing phase. In addition, fans that have pre-ordered the game will receive early access and be among the first to play the game beginning August 24th.
During today's FINAL FANTASY XIV Letter from the Producer LIVE, Naoki Yoshida (producer and director) also shared some upcoming incentives to get players even more excited for launch:

 Veteran Rewards - Enjoy various bonuses based on how long you have been a FINAL FANTASY XIV: A Realm Reborn subscriber (30, 60 & 90 days). By starting with a 90-day subscription, players receive all 30-day, 60-day, and 90-day bonuses at once.
 Companion iOS App - A free companion app, "FINAL FANTASY XIV: Libra EorzeaTM," planned to arrive a week after launch
 Welcome Back Campaign - Players who registered FINAL FANTASY® XIV 1.0 can play FINAL FANTASY XIV: A Realm Reborn for free until Monday, September 9.

Set for an August 27, 2013 release, FINAL FANTASY XIV: A Realm Reborn will be available for $39.99 on the PlayStation® 3 system and $29.99 for Windows PC. A free 30-day trial is also included for new accounts. Monthly subscriptions for new accounts start at $12.99. PC specs for final product may change; please refer to the pre-order website for details. 
To pre-order FINAL FANTASY XIV: A Realm Reborn and gain early access to the final game, visit: http://na.finalfantasyxiv.com/product/.

