
                                          Madden NFL 17
                  				 Review


  Perfect Shouldn't Be The Enemy Of Good




Reviewed on PlayStation 4

Also on
Xbox One

Publisher
EA Sports

Developer
EA Tiburon

Release
August 23, 2016

Rating
Everyone

In
Madden 17, a specific line stands out from the excellent new commentary team of
Charles Davis and Brandon Gaudin. Davis, the ex-player providing the color
commentary, talks about how coaches are always looking for that "perfect game."
The perfect game doesn't exist in the NFL or in any given rendition of Madden.
Even so, Madden 17 has a lot to enjoy. As they do every year, developers EA
Tiburon concentrate on a set of new features, fixes, and points of emphasis to
varying degrees of success. Not all the bases are covered, but this is still a
team win that Madden gamers can appreciate on some level.
If last year's gameplay was all about the air
attack, this year is about what happens on the ground. Instead of just picking
your hole and turboing through it, the revamped blocking schemes give players
more to consider. Even though the holes are a little bigger, I wouldn't say
running is easier. In fact, an in-your-face danger surrounds the defensive
players as they crash in to disrupt the play or hold off an offensive linemen
with one arm and come sliding down the line to gobble you up in the backfield
with the other. The interplay between the offensive and defensive lines at the
line of scrimmage is dynamic, exemplifying football's human chess match.
As fluid as some of the line play is (I saw an
offensive linemen shuffle down the line of scrimmage, make a block, and then
slide off and make a second block further down the line), you still see
awkward steps by isolated players. Lead blockers occasionally prioritize the
wrong target, players slide into catches or blocks (something I thought was
solved last year), and others take baffling steps in the wrong direction.
Despite this emphasis on the ground, the air game
has not been ignored. The new defensive zones make you double check a receiver
is truly open before you throw the ball. It's a necessary addition that doesn't
throw off the balance. Even when you're on defense, knowing which zones to call
takes getting used to, although the new run/pass counters playcalling option – where you call defensive plays to address specific areas on the field – are a nice option when someone keeps beating you over the middle, for instance.
The latter is a nod to accessibility (itself a
dirty word to the hardcore players out there) that I am happy to reap the benefits
of. Similarly, the expanded sim options, like the Play the Moment feature that
highlights only the key moments in a game for you to play, shows that it's
possible to enjoy some of Madden's new features that I wasn't explicitly asking
for.
This sentiment applies to the Connected Franchise
mode as a whole. I have a running list of things I'd like to see in the mode
that aren't in Madden 17 (better free agency, coordinators, more salary
options, etc.), but I can't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Being able
to take the risk of rushing players back from injury and the way injuries can
affect your management of the new practice squad is satisfying, as are players
regressing because of injury and highlighting which players develop faster than
others. These features, as well as formation subs (in franchise mode) and the
streamlined weekly game-planning, are relatively small potatoes compared to the
overhaul in scouting, ownership, and other GM functions that Connected
Franchise mode needs, but they are useful.
Madden 17's various online modes like Ultimate
Team stay largely the same, but at least features that were added post-launch
to Madden 16, such as ranked salary cap matches and playing against friends in
Draft Champions, remain. One Ultimate Team addition worth mentioning is
Chemistry styles, which expands and makes prominent the boost styles from last
year.
Gamers
often use the term ".5" as a derisive tag for a title merely being a half step
toward the series' next evolution. While I agree Madden 17 isn't a leap
forward, the fact that it rides Madden 16's coattails while creating its own (thanks
to the commentary system and some of the trench play) doesn't make it a
bad title. If you asked me which I'd rather have – a new franchise mode or
the improved line play that's now in the game, it's hard to ignore what I've
actually experienced versus a hypothetical. The game is better because of it,
and there's no going back.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptLast year the air attack was addressed, and this time it’s the ground game – mainly in the trenches
GraphicsThe player faces and uniform details (including new equipment) have taken a step up this year
SoundThe new commentary is a revelation compared to years past due to its fluidity, sheer amount of content, and better contextual awareness. I also noticed a lot of little touches on the field such as grunts and equipment sounds
PlayabilityOptional new visual indicators in the running game and auto-dekes are available for newcomers
EntertainmentThe experience isn’t perfect on or off the field, but it still has plenty to like
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Madden NFL 17

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One

Release Date:

August 23, 2016

Purchase
More Info

