
  Review Round-Up: Killzone 3, Bulletstorm, And More






It's a big final week of February as far as game releases go, with heavy hitters like Killzone 3 and Bulletstorm arriving alongside quirkier titles like Radiant Historia, Knights Contract, and De Blob 2. What should you be spending your money on? Check our review round-up to find out!
Enjoy the excerpts below and click through to read the full reviews!
Bulletstorm (360, PS3, PC) - "Small 
gripes aside, there’s no denying Bulletstorm’s blissful action. Epic 
Games/People Can Fly’s sadistic opus arrives at a time when most 
shooters do little more than let you blast dudes in the head while 
things explode. Bulletstorm has those things, but also lets you shoot a 
man in the testicles and kick slide his head off." - Tim Turi
De Blob 2 (360, PS3, Wii) - "Because of its lighthearted nature and presentation, de Blob 2 may pass 
under the radar of “core” gamers, which would be a crime worthy of the 
INKT Corporation. Fun, innovative, and surprisingly deep, de Blob 2 is 
bright spot in a sea of gray games and iterative sequels." - Meagan Marie
Killzone 3 (PS3) - "Killzone 3’s shocking and abrupt campaign ending serves as a suitable 
wrap to Guerilla’s extended war-themed trilogy. Even if it is a 
conclusion of sorts, Killzone 3 stands on its own. The franchise has 
always fallen just shy of greatness for me. This time, there’s plenty 
for any action gamer to dig his or her teeth into." - Matt Miller
Knights Contract (360, PS3) - "Heinrich and Gretchen’s journey is tiresome, but when the game works the
 way it should – with Gretchen being far removed from harm’s way, and 
Heinrich navigating ledge-free areas – the duo creates a wonderfully 
chaotic storm on the battlefield that empowers the player with the 
feeling of being unstoppable." - Andrew Reiner
Radiant Historia (DS) - "A 
top-down view and some sprites aren’t all it takes to capture the 
essence of a classic RPG. Many titles have tried to capitalize on 
gamers’ nostalgia for the 16-bit era, but most end up feeling like 
hollow and archaic imitations. Radiant Historia succeeds where those 
attempts fail; it is an inventive role-playing game that delivers the 
sensation of playing one of your old favorites for the first time." - Joe Juba

