
  Transformers: War For Cybertron Character Profile -- Starscream






We've already given you the lowdown on the esteemed leaders of the Autobots and Decepticons, Optimus Prime and Megatron, but for our final Transformers: War For Cybertron character profile, we wanted to take a look at a true fan favorite. Enter Megatron's ever-scheming second-in-command, Starscream. You can see his powerful jet form above and his newly-designed robot form below.
Cartoon watchers who were introduced to Starscream in the '80s were immediately drawn to his sneaky, deceitful nature. Despite being arguably the highest-ranking member of the Decepticons besides Megatron, Starscream is deadset on taking the top spot, and he makes no efforts to hide it. But the original cartoon never really attempted to explain why Starscream was on such a power trip nor why Megatron kept him around despite that. War For Cybertron's prequel story lends itself perfectly to fleshing out these motivations. 
The first mission of the Decepticon campaign will chronicle the first meeting between Megatron and Starscream aboard a space station that orbits Cybertron. This dramatic encounter will culminate in one of the Decepticons defecting only to be replaced by an eager Starscream. Despite teaming up with the Decepticons, Starscream will make it clear that in his mind both Megatron and Optimus Prime are failing to keep the best interests of all of Cybertron in their minds. 
As one of the handful of Transformers that can change into a jet, Starscream will also have the special Hover ability while in robot form. His other special ability, Shockwave, sounds like it will be perfect for handling large groups of enemies. 

Be sure to check out our previous character profiles and tons more videos and articles about the latest Transformers game on our War For Cybertron hub.

      Products In This Article

Transformers: War For Cybertron

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

June 22, 2010

Purchase
More Info

