
  Alan Wake 2 Review, Mario Wonder, And Spider-Man 2 | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, I've assembled a panel of experts – including Blake Hester and Charles Harte – to discuss Alan Wake 2, the 13-year follow-up to Remedy Entertainment's cult classic thriller. After Charles gives the rest of us a refresher on all things Alan Wake, Blake regales us with his favorite non-spoiler moments from many hours into the newly-released sequel. Later, we talk about the written and physical comedy of Super Mario Bros. Wonder and how web gliding is a game changer in Marvel's Spider-Man 2.

Stick around 'til the end of the show for a series of listener questions about soulmates, the afterlife, and the best years in gaming.

Listen to Game Informer's Lords of the Alan Wake 2 Discussion:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Charles Harte (@ChuckDuck365), Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:03:04 - The Exorcist: Believer

00:06:36 - Alan Wake II

00:31:43 - Super Mario Bros. Wonder

00:44:29 - Marvel's Spider-Man 2

00:59:09 - Party Animals

01:07:50 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Alan Wake 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 27, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Super Mario Bros. Wonder

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Marvel's Spider-Man 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

October 20, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

