
  Bayonetta 3, Game Informer Layoffs, And Alex Stadnik Says Goodbye | GI Show






            Three beloved members of Game Informer were laid off last week – as you might've read on social media last week. The affected employees were John Carson, Wesley LeBlanc, and our Creative Director of 14 years, Jeff Akervik. In this episode of The Game Informer Show, we lament the loss of John, Wes, and Jeff and share what we love about them and why they're great hiring candidates. Afterward, host Alex Stadnik shares he's leaving Game Informer for a new adventure in the video game industry and talks with Alex Van Aken about the future of the podcast and his vision for our outlet's video content. 

This episode is a rollercoaster, so if you only want to hear our thoughts on Bayonetta 3's October release date, use the timestamps below to jump to the various segments of the podcast.

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Blake Hester (@Radmure), Jill Grodt (@Finruin)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:03:30 - Game Informer Layoffs
00:36:10 - Alex Stadnik Says Goodbye
00:56:14 - Bayonetta 3
01:11:00 - Listener Questions
02:09:25 - Future of the Podcast and Video

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Bayonetta 3

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 28, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

Alex Stadnik
contributed to this article.

