
  Bayonetta 3 Cover Story And Overwatch 2 Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew shares exclusive details from our latest magazine cover story on Bayonetta 3, including Marcus Stewart's hands-on impressions, a focus on the sequel's larger-than-life villains, and newcomer protagonist, Viola. During The Playlist, we break down our Overwatch 2 review and chat about our hands-on Gotham Knights preview. 

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode was edited by Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:02:38 - News

00:03:49 - Cover Story - Bayonetta 3

00:26:20 - Gotham Knights

00:43:20 - Overwatch 2

01:05:14 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Bayonetta 3

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 28, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Overwatch 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 4, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Gotham Knights

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 21, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

