
  Behind The Animations & Cutscenes in Marvel's Guardians Of The Galaxy Game – Exclusive Interview






            Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy is the latest game to grace our cover, and in this exclusive interview we sat down with the game's Animation Director, Darryl Purdy, to learn more about gameplay animations, directing cutscenes in the game, and overcoming challenges presented by motion capture. 

If you're interested in learning more about Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy after watching this video, be sure to read our 12-page cover story. You can learn all about the game's lesser-known characters in this issue, like Lady Hellbender in this brief snippet:

Although Thanos' name is thrown around liberally by Eidos-Montréal, he's only being referenced in the backstory at this point. The focus for the moment is on just one villain: Lady Hellbender. She made her debut in 2016 within the first issue of Frank Cho and Greg Pak's Totally Awesome Hulk, and immediately became known as the "monster queen" from her desire to collect rare beasts for her sanctuary on Seknarf Nine.

We don't know much about her origin story or motivations within Eidos-Montréal's game, but she clearly still has an eye for rare monsters, and the Guardians may have just handed her the prize of her collection. In the comics, her real name is Marguerite Hellbender. When she makes appearances, she always shows us she has superhuman strength, is proficient with a sword, and will do anything to get the creatures of her desire.

Over the course of the next week, Game Informer will publish a heap of exclusive behind-the-scenes interviews with key members of Eidos-Montréal about how they're bringing this team of misfits to life. While you wait, be sure to check out our Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy coverage hub, where you'll find articles, podcasts, and videos all about the game. Don't want to hear anything else about the game before it releases? Well, you won't have to wait long since it launches on October 26, 2021.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 26, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

