
  Creating The World Of Marvel’s Guardians Of The Galaxy – Exclusive Interview






            Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy releases this October, and as part of our exclusive coverage of the game, we sat down for an exclusive interview with the game's Senior Creative Director, Jean-François Dugas, about how his team at Eidos Montreal is creating a faithful but truly unique story in the Marvel Games universe. We learned about the game's pre-production and initial pitch to Marvel, why the team wanted players to control Star-Lord instead of other characters like Rocket Raccoon or Gamora, and how player choice is weaved through this story-driven action game.

If you're interested in learning more about Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy after watching this video, be sure to read our 12-page cover story. Here's a brief snippet that sets up the game's story:

"They call themselves the Guardians of the Galaxy, but given the current debacle they're in, they might as well change their name to the Destroyers of the Universe. They took on a mission that would pay handsomely, but were blinded by the fortune and didn't think things through. The task seemed simple: Secure a small tentacled monstrosity and deliver it to a person of questionable character. What could go wrong? Unbeknownst to the Guardians, that little beastie they nabbed ended up having a hell of an appetite, and it continues to grow in size and might. It's poised to destroy the galaxy... and perhaps even the universe.

Thanos tried to wipe away half of all life with a snap of his fingers, but that dark deed may be dealt inadvertently by a team of squabbling drifters. They now need to fix their mistake, but how are they going to stop an alient entity with god-like capabilities?"

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy is a game about family, rad tunes, and saving the galaxy, and over the course of the next week, Game Informer will publish a heap of exclusive behind-the-scenes interviews with key members of Eidos Montreal about how they're bringing this team of misfits to life. While you wait, be sure to check out our Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy coverage hub, where you'll find articles, podcasts, and videos all about the game. Don't want to hear anything else about the game before it releases? Well, you won't have to wait long since it launches on October 26, 2021.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 26, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

