
  Designing The Combat Systems In Marvel's Guardians Of The Galaxy – Exclusive Interview






            Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy is a game about family, rad tunes, and saving the galaxy. In this exclusive interview, we sat down with the game's Senior Gameplay Director to learn about its gameplay and combat systems, how exactly the Guardian Request System works and why it was crucial to developing a cohesive Guardians game, and how the team at Eidos Montreal utilizes in-game collectibles for meaningful  storytelling. 

If you're interested in learning more about Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy after watching this video, be sure to read our 12-page cover story. Here's a brief snippet that sets up the game's story:

In Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy, Eidos-Montréal is sticking with the team of heroes people have come to adore. At a quick glance, all five characters are immediately recognizable, but if you take just a few more seconds to truly soak each in, you’ll notice they are slightly different than their film and comic counterparts. Heavy inspiration is drawn from those versions, but Eidos’ take is new. Each hero’s silhouette is what you expect it to be, but their attire, hair, and facial features have been reinvented. As you get to know the alternate versions of these coin-chasing spacegoers, you’ll see their motivations and backstories may be different as well.

Over the course of the next week, Game Informer will publish a heap of exclusive behind-the-scenes interviews with key members of Eidos-Montréal about how they're bringing this team of misfits to life. While you wait, be sure to check out our Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy coverage hub, where you'll find articles, podcasts, and videos all about the game. Don't want to hear anything else about the game before it releases? Well, you won't have to wait long since it launches on October 26, 2021.

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 26, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

