
  Elden Ring Cover Story And Dying Light 2 Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses our Elden Ring cover story and how the game will likely be From Software's best game yet. We also dive into our Dying Light 2 review and offer varying perspectives on which aspects resonated with us (and those that didn't). Lastly, in the Listener Questions segment, we share tips for folks jumping into an MMO for the first time – specifically Lost Ark, which releases in less than two weeks.

Follow the crew on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Andrew Reiner (@Andrew_Reiner), Dan Tack (@DanTack), and Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:02:38 – Elden Ring Cover Story
00:31:03 – Dying Light 2 Review
00:37:29 – Dying Light 2 Side Quest Spoiler
00:37:55 – Dying Light 2 Review
00:57:57 – OlliOlli World
01:00:04 – Housekeeping
01:04:05 – Game Informer Update With Reiner
01:07:16 – Listener Questions

            Topic of the Show:

            Discussing Our Elden Ring Cover Story 

            Elden Ring is nearly three weeks away. Naturally, we asked Dan Tack to jump on the microphone to share impressions from his recent 10 hours of hands-on time. We learn more about Limgrave, why Godrick the Grafted has a fire-breathing dragon head for an arm, and extrapolate how great Elden Ring might be. 

Follow along with our Elden Ring coverage here.

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer Staff discuss the games they're playing.

            Dying Light 2 seems to be another video game with wildly varied scores attached to it. Andrew Reiner, Alex Van Aken, and Blake Hester discuss their differing opinions on the game's story, but all agree the gameplay is quite good. 

Read our Dying Light 2 review here.

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            In this week's Listener Questions segment, we discuss commentary tracks, video game company acquisitions, and tips for jumping into an MMORPG for the very first time.

Read this week's questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

"You have a magic remote that can add a commentary track to literally anything, be it video game, movie, shoe, or hydroelectric dam. What are you using your remote on and why?" - Chris Fayter (Discord)

"With the acquisition feeding frenzy going strong this year, who is the most valuable target for acquisition still out there (besides the big ones like EA, Ubi, and Nintendo). From Soft looks pretty good right about now." - Joodonkadonk (Discord)

"Lost Ark is going to be my first MMO. My friends are going to play too, so I've got a group to play with--however, MMOs look overwhelming to me--what are some tips or heads-ups I should know before jumping in?" - Camus_Cthulu (Discord)

            For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Elden Ring

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Dying Light 2 Stay Human

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

February 4, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), TBA (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

Lost Ark

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

February 11, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

