
  Exclusive Look At The Driving And Car Combat In Saints Row






            Many of you asked for action-focused footage following the release of our last Saints Row cover video, and we're happy to finally oblige. Today we're showing off an exclusive first look at the reboot's revamped driving system, which includes new ways to engage in car combat! I played a build of Saints Row for several days last month, and the vehicles of Santo Ileso were a joy to maneuver. I'm never the biggest racing fan in the room, but this reboot delivers a delightful arcade racing experience that reminds me of the soft spot I have for series like Need For Speed Underground, Grand Theft Auto, and even the earlier Saints games. 

The game features plenty of driving mechanics that we've seen in other games, like drifting, speed boosts in certain vehicles, and weapon blindfiring, but one of my favorite additions is the ability to surf on top of vehicles. You can ditch the steering wheel while driving solo and let your car's natural momentum carry you forward while you unleash your favorite assault rifle on unsuspecting enemies, or you can ride on top while a co-op partner steers the vehicle. If the car has enough speed while you're surfing, you can even deploy your wingsuit and launch straight into the sky, which feels amazing when you pull it off. You can even land on another car when you're ready to come back down to earth.

Please note that this Saints Row gameplay is pre-alpha footage supplied by Deep Silver and represents a game still in development.

If you haven’t yet, also be sure to check out our Saints Row exclusive coverage hub, read our 12-page cover story on the game with a digital or print subscription, and subscribe to the Game Informer YouTube channel so that you don’t miss any of our exclusive gameplay videos.

      Products In This Article

Saints Row

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 23, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

