
                                          Far Cry 6
                  


  Far Cry 6 | New Gameplay Today




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Publisher
Ubisoft

Developer
Ubisoft Toronto

Release
October 7, 2021

Rating
Mature

            The Far Cry 6 release date is just around the corner, and we were lucky enough to go hands-on with the upcoming first-person shooter and saw many of the gameplay opportunities that the Island of Yara offers. With its antagonist being played by the famous Giancarlo Esposito, many fans are hopeful that this entry in the Far Cry series will return to form by featuring an unforgettable performance by the game's villain. Join Alex Stadnik, Brian Shea, and our wonderful production director, Margaret Andrews, for another episode of New Gameplay Today, wherein the trio shows off brand new Far Cry 6 gameplay!

Senior editor Brian Shea summarizes his time spent playing Far Cry 6 in his recent preview, saying:

Far Cry 6 starts with a bang from both narrative and action standpoints. I’m curious if Ubisoft can carry forward with these emotional gut-punches without falling victim to the cognitive dissonance for which Far Cry is often known. Hopefully, the enjoyment we get from flying around in our wingsuits, firing over-the-top weapons, and fighting alongside a cute wiener dog named Chorizo doesn’t contrast too harshly with the story of an island in political peril. Only time will tell if Ubisoft can balance these disparate tones, but in my time playing, I had a blast and still felt the weight of the dark narrative beats.

Did you enjoy this early look at Far Cry 6? If so, subscribe to the Game Informer YouTube channel so that you don't miss our full Far Cry 6 review when the game launches this October! If you're interested in seeing the latest footage of upcoming games, be sure to check out other episodes of New Gameplay Today here. As always, leave a comment down below, letting us know if you're excited to play the latest entry in the Far Cry series.

Tune into New Gameplay Today to see the latest hands-on previews of upcoming titles, as well as first looks at brand new games and popular titles receiving expanded content.

      Products In This Article

Far Cry 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Release Date:

October 7, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

Alex Stadnik
 & Brian Shea
contributed to this article.

