
  Final Fantasy VII Rebirth And Playing Metal Gear Solid In 2024 | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses Final Fantasy VII Rebirth one last time before it releases and then examines Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League against the three game design pillars: camera, controls, and character. Alex chats about playing Metal Gear Solid for the first time and what it's like playing a game made in 1998 on its own terms in 2024. Finally, Brian and Charles dive into Persona 3 Reload, now publisher Atlus's fastest-selling game of all time. 

Watch Our Weekly Gaming Podcast:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Charles Harte (@Chuckduck365)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:03:21 - Final Fantasy VII Rebirth Preview

00:11:33 - Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League

00:35:01 - Metal Gear Solid

00:59:47 - Persona 3 Reload

01:09:21 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Final Fantasy VII Rebirth

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

February 29, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Volume 1

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

