
  First 5 Hours Of God Of War Ragnarök And Bayonetta 3 Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, our new Magazine Content Director, Kyle Hilliard, joins the crew to share impressions from the first five hours of God of War Ragnarök. Additionally, Blake and Marcus share their thoughts about Bayonetta 3; later in the show, Alex talks about why Marvel Snap is excellent despite him becoming tired of the franchise lately. Lastly, Blake talks about the Modern Warfare 2 campaign's unfortunate shortcomings, especially as someone who traditionally enjoys Call Of Duty. 

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode was edited by Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:03:51 - Kyle Hilliard Returns

00:08:09 - Silent Hill News

00:26:01 - Bayonetta 3 Review

00:42:23 - God of War Ragnarök Preview

00:56:51 - Marvel Snap

01:07:33 - Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II Campaign

01:14:07 - House Keeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

God of War Ragnarök

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

November 9, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Bayonetta 3

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 28, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Marvel Snap

Platform:

PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

October 18, 2022 (iOS, Android), August 22, 2023 (PC)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

