
  Forspoken Review And Dead Space Remake | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, we break down our Forspoken review and chat about why the open-world game is weird enough to develop a devoted fanbase despite conflicting reviews. Additionally, returning guest Kahlief Adams joins us to promote Spawn On Me's upcoming game awards show, The Spawnies, and also chat with Marcus and Kyle about the newly-released Dead Space remake. 

Lastly, Alex and Kyle share very early impressions from Hi-Fi Rush, the stylish action game from the creators of The Evil Within that shadow-dropped yesterday.

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Kahlief Adams (@KahliefAdams)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Introduction

00:03:16 - Spawn On Me Promo

00:09:59 - Dead Space Review Discussion

00:29:55 - Forspoken Review

00:41:54 - Hi-Fi Rush

00:51:33 - House Keeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Forspoken

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

January 24, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Dead Space (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

January 27, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Hi-Fi Rush

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

January 25, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

