
  God Of War Ragnarök Cover And The Last Of Us Part 1 | GI Show (Feat. Kenneth Shepard)






            After a two-week break, The Game Informer Show returns full force after host Alex Van Aken traveled throughout Europe for Gamescom 2022. Special guest Kenneth Shepard, staff writer at Fanbyte, joins the crew to discuss our God Of War Ragnarök cover story and The Last Of Us Part 1 review impressions. 

Sadly, this episode also marks Jay Guisao's last week as a Game Informer editor. We talk about his creative process from writing his first cover story and how his studies in game development are preparing him for his next journey. While his departure is bittersweet, Jay is moving on to an incredible new job you'll learn more about soon if you follow him on Twitter.

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Jay Guisao (@Jason_Guisao), Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad), Ken Shepard (@Shepardcdr)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Editor's Note: Please welcome Matt Storm, our new freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host, editor, and producer who's been podcasting for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:02:34 - Gamescom

00:10:22 - Jay's Big News

00:13:43 - Cover Story - God of War Ragnarök

00:43:51 - The Last of Us Part I

01:11:43 - Endless Dungeon

01:21:52 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

01:35:56 - Final Fantasy VII Remake Spoilers

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

God of War Ragnarök

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

November 9, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

