
  Goku Joins Fortnite! Reviewing The Dragon Ball Super Update | GI Show






            In this episode of The Game Informer Show, returning guests Jesse Vitelli and Shawn Thomas – two of my favorite battle royale squadmates – join us to talk about Fortnite. We review the Dragon Ball Super update, chat about why the Goku and Vegeta skins look a little off, and discuss how we'd like to see Fortnite change. We also reminisce about the game's early years and explain why we love it. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes), Jesse Vitelli (@JesseVitelli), Shawn Thomas (@XShawnThomas)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Editor's Note: Please welcome Matt Storm, our new freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host, editor, and producer who's been podcasting for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:03:17 - Pokémon World Championships 2022
00:04:29 - Fortnite x Dragon Ball
00:41:23 - Housekeeping 
00:44:43 -  Embracer Group
00:54:31 - Listener Mail

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Fortnite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

July 25, 2017 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac), April 2, 2018 (iOS), June 12, 2018 (Switch), August 9, 2018 (Android), November 10, 2020 (Xbox Series X/S), November 12, 2020 (PlayStation 5)

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

