
  Halo Infinite Season 2, Square Enix Sale, And Trek To Yomi Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses the new maps and modes in Halo Infinite Season 2, Square Enix selling their western studios for an ostensibly modest price, and the dichotomy of Trek To Yomi's disappointing graphics and stellar art direction. Jill highlights Loot River during The Playlist segment, an innovative roguelike dungeon crawler with Tetris-like puzzle elements.

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Jill Grodt (@Finruin)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:03:03 - Square Enix Sells Western Studios
00:23:33 - Loot River
00:36:34 - Trek To Yomi
00:55:45 - Spelunky
01:00:49 - Halo Infinite Season 2
01:16:52 - Housekeeping
01:21:28 - Community Emails
01:24:14 - Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order Spoilers
01:24:48 - Community Emails
01:31:06 - Star Wars Movie Spoilers
01:39:47 - Community Emails

            News:

            Square Enix Sells Western Studios And IP For $300M

Square Enix Sells Crystal Dynamics, Eidos-Montréal, And More, Including Tomb Raider IP, To Embracer Group

            Topic Of The Show:

            Trek To Yomi Review Discussion

            Trek To Yomi is Devolver Digital's new 2D side-scroller set in a fictionalized, black and white depiction of Japan's Edo period. Inspired by the works of Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa, the game has a very compelling art direction. Unfortunately, other aspects of the game – especially combat and narrative design – are below average. Jill Grodt and Alex Van Aken share their review impressions of this anticipated indie. 

Read or watch our Trek To Yomi review here. 

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer staff discuss the games they're playing.

            Halo Infinite Season 2 is finally here and Alex Stadnik breaks down the game's new maps, modes, and battle pass. Jill explains how Loot River's Tetris-like environment helps to create a compelling roguelike formula. Alex Van Aken is simply playing Spelunky. 

Read our Loot River review here.

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            We have another great edition of Listener Questions, during which the community asks us a lot about Star Wars. 

Read this week's questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

What’s your lightsaber color? - AnAttackCorgi

Now that the game press conference season is almost upon us, what game are you guys most excited to learn more about? Bonus Star Wars question: what's the worst Star Wars movie? - SnakeEater1964

Share your favorite new trilogy Star Wars scene? SPOILERS ALLOWED! - Groffles

First-time caller, long-time listener - what would a famed Whose Line Is It Anyway say about Grizzlies in 5? Thanks, keep making a great show. - Dan Tack

            For more Game Informer podcasts, check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Trek to Yomi

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

May 5, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), January 30, 2023 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

