
  Halo Infinite Cover Reveal And Elden Ring Hands-On Impressions | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew unveils the latest game to grace the cover of our magazine, Halo Infinite and details our time spent seeing Xbox's flagship title in action. During The Playlist, Dan Tack raves about his nearly 15 hours playing Elden Ring ahead of this weekend's network test, Marcus shares his Bright Memory: Infinite review impressions and Van Aken shares his initial impressions of Battlefield 2042 fresh out of a three-day review event. Fair warning, we talk about the opening moments of the Halo Infinite campaign, so spoiler warning ahead of the section.

Follow the crew on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Dan Tack (@dantack), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode is sponsored by GeForce NOW, NVIDIA’s cloud gaming service that transforms nearly any laptop, desktop, tablet, and smartphone into a powerful PC gaming rig. With the new GeForce NOW RTX 3080 Membership you can upgrade nearly any device to a GeForce RTX 3080 powered gaming machine, unlocking up to 1440p, 120FPS, and 4K HDR. Pre-order a GeForce NOW RTX 3080 Membership for the best cloud gaming experience at GeForceNOW.com. 

Every Thursday, GeForce NOW adds support for more games! Check out the GFN Thursday blog to learn more. 

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 - Introduction
00:03:45 - New Mass Effect Teaser Image
00:15:02 - Halo Infinite Cover Story
01:01:11 - Elden Ring Hands-On
01:28:50 - Battlefield 2042 Review Impressions
02:02:25 - Bright Memory Infinite
02:17:28 - Housekeeping
02:22:26 - Listener Emails

            News:

            BioWare Drops Mass Effect Sequel Hints In New Image

The New Mass Effect Teased For N7 Day With An Image Loaded With Hints

            Topic of the Show:

            Halo Infinite Cover Reveal

            Master Chief is back and we are highlighting the Xbox Game Studios title via an in-depth 20-page cover story detailing the game's campaign and multiplayer. Join Matt Miller, Brian Shea, and Alex Stadnik for a discussion about everything they saw during their virtual cover trip.

Check out our exclusive Halo Infinite coverage hub.

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer Staff discuss the games they're playing.

            There are so many exciting video games to chat about this week! Elden Ring is shaping up to be FromSoftware's best title to date, Bright Memory: Infinite ends abruptly but has the potential to become a solid action series, and despite its bugs, Battlefield 2042 is packed with modes that fans will enjoy.

Read our Battlefield 2042 review in progress and our Bright Memory: Infinite review.

            For more Game Informer podcasts, be sure to check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, and All Things Nintendo with host Brian Shea which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Battlefield 2042

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 19, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Bright Memory: Infinite

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 11, 2021 (PC), July 21, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

