
  How Classic JRPGs Inspired The Making Of Sea Of Stars






            Sea of Stars is an RPG unabashedly inspired by the 16-bit era of Japanese RPGs. Even just looking at screenshots of the game recalls the best of the era, and that’s not an accident. Developer Sabotage Studio’s CEO and Sea of Stars’ creative director, Thierry Boulanger, is a huge fan of the genre and has been building towards making a game like this since he started building the fantasy world Sea of Stars and The Messenger takes place in during Elementary school.

Dozens of classic RPGs inspired Sea of Stars’ development, including Chrono Trigger and Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, but we asked Boulanger to pick the most significant ones in the video below. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

If you enjoy this video, please subscribe to the Game Informer YouTube channel. This video feature is part of our indie-focused magazine issue, which Sea of Stars headlines. Visit our online cover story hub to learn how Chrono Trigger composer Yasunori Mitsuda came to work on Sea of Stars or watch our latest documentary in which we explore caves with the creator of Spelunky. 

Don't let my byline fool you – Game Informer staffers Kyle Hilliard and Charles Harte worked hard to produce this video feature. I merely brought it across the finish line. 

      Products In This Article

Sea of Stars

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

August 29, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

Kyle Hilliard
 & Charles Harte
contributed to this article.

