
  Immortals Of Aveum Review And Persona 5 Tactica Preview | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses our Immortals of Aveum review, as well as visiting New York City to play Persona 5 Tactica – a turn-based tactical spinoff of Atlus' popular JRPG – Persona 3 Reload, and Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name. Additionally, we run through the highlights from Gamescom Opening Night Live, which premiered a slate of new games and featured updates of previously announced titles. 

Watch The Podcast's Video Version:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:03:28 - Gamescom Opening Night Live

00:30:19 - Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name

00:40:53 - Endless Dungeon

00:45:10 - Persona 3 Reload

00:50:59 - Persona 5 Tactica

00:58:41 - Mortal Kombat 1

01:05:01 - Immortals of Aveum

01:18:38 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Immortals of Aveum

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 22, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Persona 5 Tactica

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 17, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

