
  Lies Of P Is More Than A Bloodborne Clone | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew breaks down our Lies of P review and discusses why the game is much more than a Bloodborne clone. Afterward, Blake talks about why he likes Armored Core VI and also why the hesitations from our cover story still ring true. Lastly, we chat about the games that continue to bring us joy: Fortnite and Nour: Play With Your Food.

Watch The Podcast Here:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:05:17 - Lies of P Review

00:24:58 - Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon

00:38:02 - Croc Talk

00:42:44 - Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 4

00:51:50 - Nour: Play With Your Food

01:03:27 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Lies of P

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac

Release Date:

September 19, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Armored Core VI Fires of Rubicon

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 25, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

