
  Lords Of The Fallen Review And Games We've Missed In 2023 | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew breaks down our Lords of the Fallen review and subsequently rips into publishers for naming video game sequels the same name as the original game, like "Lords of the Fallen" instead of "Lords of the Fallen 2." After, Alex talks about why action puzzler Cocoon nails player feedback, and then we dive into the anals of our 2023 gaming backlog, highlighting releases we want to revisit or play for the first time before Game Informer's Game of the Year discussions in December.

Finally, our Listener Questions segment returns, discussing treating carpal tunnel and answering specific questions like, "What happened to the promised 120FPS console releases?"

Listen to Game Informer's Lords of the Fallen Review Discussion:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes).

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:07:54 - The Lords of the Fallen Review

00:32:34 - Cocoon

00:38:52 - 2023 Gaming Backlog

01:08:49 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Lords of the Fallen (2023)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

October 13, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Cocoon

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

September 29, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

