
  Mario + Rabbids Sparks Of Hope And A Plague Tale: Requiem Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew chats about Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, our A Plague Tale: Requiem review, and why we've still been enjoying Overwatch 2 despite the rocky launch. 

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode was edited by Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:04:25 - A Plague Tale: Requiem

00:20:07 - Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope

00:36:22 - Overwatch 2

00:47:31 - Listener Questions and Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

A Plague Tale: Requiem

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 18, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

October 20, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Overwatch 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 4, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

