
  Marvel's Midnight Suns Hands-On, Far Cry 6, And Returning To Destiny 2 | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the podcast crew discusses their Marvel's Midnight Suns hands-on reactions, Far Cry 6 preview impressions, news surrounding the upcoming Dead Space remake, and returning to Destiny 2: Season of the Lost after last week's announcements about The Witch Queen expansion. Later in the show, we react to the community's hot takes about games like Metal Gear Solid 5 and Uncharted 4.

This month's cover story revealed that Marvel's Midnight Suns is the upcoming card-based strategy RPG from Firaxis, the studio behind the beloved XCOM series. The game's necromantic themes and dark narrative separate it from Marvel Games' other offerings, and after playing it ourselves, the game feels very promising.  

Follow the crew on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Ben Reeves (@BenjaminReeves), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Matt Miller (@MatthewRMiller), Liana Ruppert (@DirtyEffinHippy), John Carson (@John_Carson)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 – Introduction
00:03:38 – Dead Space Remake
00:25:49 – Marvel's Midnight Suns
00:50:57 – Far Cry 6
01:03:48 – Destiny 2
01:23:15 – Housekeeping
01:27:48 – New Community Segment: Heat Map
01:52:24 – Community Emails

            News:

            Dead Space Remake Tech Demo Details

Dead Space Early Build Shows Better Lighting, VFX, And Alien Dismemberment

First Look At Dead Space Remake With Special Livestream Tomorrow

            Topic of the Show:

            Marvel's Midnight Suns Hands-On Cover Discussion

            Marvel's Midnight Suns is not only a departure for Firaxis but also for Marvel Games. This upcoming tactical game differentiates itself from its developer's previous catalog of games by introducing an exciting card-based gameplay loop and provides a much darker storyline than we're used to experiencing in a Marvel video game. On top of describing their hands-on time with the project, the crew shares more information about The Hunter, the brand new character created by a collaboration between Firaxis and Marvel. 

Keep up with our Midnight Suns exclusive coverage here.

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer Staff discuss the games they're playing.

            Far Cry 6 is only a month away from release, so Brian Shea kicks off this segment by telling us why Ubisoft's open-world project remains one of his most anticipated releases after his recent hands-on session. In short, the game is shaping up nicely, though we still have reservations about the dichotomy between Far Cry 6's gameplay loop and ambitious plot.

Matt Miller, Liana Ruppert, and John Carson then join the panel to dissect why Destiny 2 is once again enjoying its time in the limelight following last week’s reveal of The Witch Queen expansion. Even though the game is not without its flaws, the panel explains why the story content featured in Season of the Lost is worth returning to Destiny 2 to experience.

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            This week the Game Informer community asks about beloved media franchises that would make for great games, if 2022 is going to be a historic year for video games, and whether we're more excited for Grand Theft Auto 6 or Elder Scrolls VI. During our new segment, titled Heat Map, our community members call in to share their gaming hot takes!

Read their questions below, or submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com: 

"I was wondering what TV show, Movie, Book, etc. You would like to see brought to a video game and how that game would play. I personally have always wanted a proper Avatar: The Last Airbender game. That world is so full of lore that could be used to make a great game. I'd like to see an open-world adventure game in the same vein as Horizon. I don't think it would be necessary to have any of the main cast of the show involved in the game at all. You pick your type of bending and grow into a powerful bender as the game progresses. So, are there any beloved series that you have always wanted to see turned into a video game?" – Ganon from Hyrule

"Is 2022 going to become one of those historic epic years for games? We're getting 3 historically proven studios creating 3 games of the year competitors for each major console: God of War Ragnarok, Starfield, and Breath of the Wild 2. Not to mention several other games dated for 2022 now with Horizon Forbidden West, Elden Ring, Stalker 2, Redfall, and countless others. Do you think the pandemic-adjusted timelines and delays caused us to catch up and pack the year instead of spreading them out over time? Is it just coincidence and this is the sweet spot in the console life cycle like there is every generation?" – John from Tampa, FL

"With it being the 10 year anniversary of Skyrim and year 8 of GTA5 I was wondering which new game in these series were you looking forward to more and why? Both came out two generations ago and have current console versions. Thanks for all you do!" – Cole Harper from Nashville, TN

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Marvel's Midnight Suns

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 2, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC), May 11, 2023 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

Far Cry 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Release Date:

October 7, 2021

Purchase
More Info

Destiny 2: The Witch Queen

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

February 22, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Dead Space (Remake)

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

January 27, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

