
  Our Most Anticipated Games Of 2024 (Feat. Matt Storm) | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, returning guest and editor of this podcast, Matt Storm, joins us to discuss our most anticipated games of 2024. We dive into Game Informer's 2024 game release calendar and go month-by-month, highlighting the projects we're most looking forward to. 

Watch The Podcast To Learn About Upcoming Games In 2024: 

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Matt Storm (@DJ_Stormageddon)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:03:16 - Matt Storm Introduction

00:09:52 - Most Anticipated Video Games of 2024

01:39:32 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Dragon's Dogma 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Pacific Drive

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC

Release Date:

February 22, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Persona 3 Reload

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

