
  Palworld Is Real and So Is The Last Of Us Part II Remastered | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses real video games you can play, including our early Palworld hands-on reactions and The Last of Us Part II Remastered review. You might've heard us describe the former as "Pokémon with guns" previously, but Palworld's crafting and survival focus make it stand out as its own unique experience. After breaking down the updates packed in with Naughty Dog's rerelease, we shift our attention to Another Code: Recollection and Final Fantasy XVI. 

Watch The Game Informer Show:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:06:44 - Palworld

00:24:35 - The Last of Us Part II Remastered

00:26:19 - Spoilers Start for The Last of Us Part II Remastered

00:27:53 - Spoilers End for The Last of Us Part II Remastered

00:35:31 - Another Code: Recollection

00:46:38 - Final Fantasy XVI

01:04:06 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Palworld

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

TBA

Purchase
More Info

The Last of Us Part II Remastered 

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

January 19, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

