
  Playing Assassin's Creed Mirage In France | Exclusive Preview






            In this exclusive hands-on preview, Game Informer's Alex Van Aken and Wesley LeBlanc fly to France to be the first journalists to play Assassin's Creed Mirage at Ubisoft Bordeaux's headquarters. The duo recaps several hours of playtime and discusses how developer Ubisoft Bordeaux aims to bring the series back to its stealth-based roots. Additionally, this video showcases never-before-seen gameplay of Assassin's Creed Mirage's contract missions in action – in accordance with the specific levels we demoed. 

We Flew To France To Play Assassin's Creed Mirage:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Check out the entirety of Game Informer's cover story hub if you enjoy this exclusive look at Assassin's Creed Mirage. Looking for more videos? Subscribe to our YouTube channel so you don't miss the next one. Special thanks to friend of Game Informer, TAETRO, for allowing us to use their "Crossed Wires" music track. 

Disclaimer: Ubisoft oversaw travel accommodations for Game Informer in France in association with this cover story. As the world’s largest video game magazine, Game Informer’s editorial team is proud to remain impartial, professional, and committed to the truth in all forms of our coverage.

      Products In This Article

Assassin's Creed Mirage

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS

Release Date:

October 5, 2023 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC), 2024 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

