
  Revisiting Pokémon X & Y And Getting Into Truck Games | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew revisits Pokémon X & Y ahead of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and tries to get into truck games via Expeditions: A Mudrunner Game. We also discuss Fortnite's Myths & Mortals season, Banishers: Ghosts of New Eden, Balatro, and Llamasoft: The Jeff Minter Story. Thanks for listening and watching!

Watch The Video Version:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Charles Harte (@chuckduck365)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:06:36 - Expeditions: A MudRunner Game

00:23:47 - Banishers: Ghosts of New Eden

00:39:18 - Fortnite Battle Royale Chapter 5 Season 2 - Myths & Mortals

00:56:00 - Final Fantasy VII Rebirth & Balatro

01:04:21 - Pokémon X & Y

01:23:41 - Llamasoft: The Jeff Minter Story

01:36:59 - Housekeeping

01:41:58 - The Lunch Break: Like A Dance Break but with Lunch (Working Title)

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Pokémon X

Platform:

3DS

Release Date:

October 12, 2013

Purchase
More Info

Llamasoft: The Jeff Minter Story

Platform:

PC

Release Date:

March 13, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

