
  Shovel Knight Dig Review And HBO's The Last Of Us Trailer | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, special guest Brenden Groom from the Pass The Controller Podcast joins us to chat about our Shovel Knight Dig review impressions, E3 returning next June as a segmented business and consumer show, and finally, whether or not HBO's The Last Of Us needs to differentiate itself from the games. 

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes), Brenden Groom (@BeGroom)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode was edited by Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:04:49 - E3 is back!
00:15:09 - The Last Of Us HBO Teaser 
00:25:01 - Shovel Knight Dig
00:39:44 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Shovel Knight Dig

Platform:

Switch, PC, iOS

Release Date:

September 23, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

