
  Sonic Frontiers Cover Story And Cuphead DLC Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses our Sonic Frontiers cover story and divulges new details about the game's open zones, combat, and a few returning characters, including Big The Cat. During The Playlist, we chat about our time playing Cuphead: The Delicious Last Course, Overwatch 2's new tank Junker Queen, and several promising games from Steam Next Fest.

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Jill Grodt (@Finruin), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:01:31 - Sonic Frontiers Cover
00:30:49 - The Playlist
00:32:00 - Cuphead: The Delicious Last Course
00:42:04 - Overwatch 2 Beta
00:53:54 - Steam Next Fest
00:57:24 - Nine Sols
01:03:19 - Blocky Dungeon
01:05:13 - Metal Hellsinger
01:09:22 - Terra Nil
01:15:24 - Steam Next Fest Lightning Round
01:21:46 - Housekeeping
01:25:06 - Listener Emails

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            Read this week's questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

"Will the Steam Deck become the de facto place to play Indie titles instead of the Switch?" - dancingphlower

"What keeps you interested in playing games over the long run? There is so much talk about the launch of new online games like Lost Ark, New World, and Halo Infinite, but I don't hear much about them after a couple of months. Are you still playing any living/online games, and what has kept you coming back to a specific game?" -BiscuitsWithDavey

"I'm watching Summer Games Done Quick and have enjoyed it for a few years, but I don't speed run any game. Is there any game/genre you all enjoy watching on stream but don't play?" - WhoCan

            For more Game Informer podcasts, check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Cuphead: The Delicious Last Course

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

June 30, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Sonic Frontiers

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 8, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

