
  Street Fighter 6, Summer Game Fest Day 2, And Giant Bomb's Future (Feat. Lucy James And Tamoor Hussain)






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew recaps everything they played at Summer Game Fest Day 2, including Street Fighter 6, Outriders Worldslayer, A Little To The Left, Birth, and Glitch Busters. We're also joined by special guests Lucy James and Tamoor Hussain, two members of Giant Bomb's new core team, to talk about the legacy and future of the iconic gaming website. 

Follow us on Twitter: Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcustStewart7), Lucy James (@LucyJamesGames), Tamoor Hussain (@TamoorH)

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

01:07 – Introduction

03:08 – The Future of Giant Bomb

20:25 – Street Fighter 6

33:58 – Day of the Devs Games (A Little To The Left, Time Flies, Birth, Glitch Busters)

41:50 – Outriders Worldslayer

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode is sponsored by Saints Row. To enter the "Self-Made" Saints Row Photo Contest, click here.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Street Fighter 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Outriders Worldslayer

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

June 30, 2022

Purchase
More Info

A Little to the Left

Platform:

Switch, PC, Mac, iOS, Android

Release Date:

November 8, 2022 (PC, Mac), November 9, 2022 (Switch), TBA (iOS, Android)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

