
  Street Fighter 6 Cover Story And Sonic Frontiers Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew gathers to talk about our Street Fighter 6 cover story and our trip to visit Capcom in Osaka, Japan. Additionally, we discuss our Sonic Frontiers review, Resident Evil Village's Shadows of Rose DLC, and Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Brian Shea (@BrianPShea), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

This episode was edited by Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Mass Effect podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:04:20 - Street Fighter 6 Cover Story

00:25:15 - Sonic Frontiers Review

00:37:41 - Resident Evil Village Shadows of Rose DLC

00:44:54 - Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope & House Keeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Street Fighter 6

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

June 2, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Sonic Frontiers

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

November 8, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

