
  Suicide Squad Preview And Prince Of Persia: The Lost Crown Review | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew discusses our Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League preview (we played several hours at a recent event), our very highly-rated Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown review, and we circle back to our video game release calendar to highlight the 2024 games we're most excited for that don't have solid release dates yet.

Watch The Podcast:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Matt Storm (@DJ_Stormageddon)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:04:00 - Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League Preview
00:31:08 - Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown Review
01:02:14 - What Has Alex Been Playing Rapid Fire Edition
01:09:04 - Most Anticipated Video Games of 2024 Without Release Dates
01:50:08 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

February 2, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

January 18, 2024

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

