
  The Game Informer Show Holiday Special 2022






            In this episode of The Game Informer Show, we share our favorite holiday traditions, plan the games we want to beat over the break and answer questions from our community.

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Wesley LeBlanc (@LeBlancWes), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a Bioware podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:07:32 - What Are You Playing During The Holiday Break

00:32:33 - Listener Questions and Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

God of War Ragnarök

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4

Release Date:

November 9, 2022

Purchase
More Info

The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Complete Edition 

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 15, 2019 (Switch), December 14, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

