
  The Countdown To Summer Game Fest Begins | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew looks ahead at the current slate of publisher showcases happening around Summer Game Fest and subsequent announcements we'd like to see. We chat about Amazon's Fallout show, rewatching the original X-Men animated series, and A24's Civil War before remembering this is a video game podcast. Afterward, Alex shares his very early impressions of World of Warcraft: The War Within's first alpha test, and Charles discusses his time playing Dragon's Dogma 2. 

Episode 703 - The Countdown To Summer Game Fest Begins:

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Charles Harte (@ChuckDuck365)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:02:58 - Amazon's Fallout, X-Men, and A24's Civil War

00:17:57 - Summer Game Fest Countdown

00:50:39 - World of Warcraft: The War Within Alpha

01:06:46 - Dragon's Dogma 2

01:20:34 - Housekeeping and Listener Questions

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Metaphor: ReFantazio

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, PC

Release Date:

October 11, 2024

Purchase
More Info

Death Stranding 2: On The Beach

Platform:

PlayStation 5

Release Date:

2025

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

