
  Tiny Tina's Wonderlands, Ghostwire, And Kirby Reviews  | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew shares their review impressions from the month's biggest releases, including Tiny Tina's Wonderlands, Ghostwire: Tokyo, and the Nintendo Switch's newest 3D platformer, Kirby and the Forgotten Land.  

Follow us on Twitter: Alex Stadnik (@Studnik76), Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Andrew Reiner (@Andrew_Reiner), Blake Hester (@MetallicaIsRad), and John Carson (@John_Carson)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join hosts Alex Stadnik and Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from all around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Check out the timestamps below to jump to a particular point in the discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro
00:04:25 - Witcher News Discussion
00:15:41 - Tiny Tina's Wonderland
00:35:36 - The Playlist
00:36:03 - Ghostwire: Tokyo
00:36:36 - Elden Ring Spoiler
00:37:01 - Ghostwire: Tokyo Continued
00:48:23 - Kirby and the Forgotten Land
01:02:16 - Housekeeping
01:06:10 - Listener Questions

            News:

            CD Projekt Red announces a new Witcher game is in active development.

CD Projekt Red Announces New Witcher Game, Will Be Made In Unreal Engine 5

CD Projekt Red Says That Medallion Is A Lynx, Implying There’s A New Witcher School

            Topic of the Week:

            Tiny Tina's Wonderlands Review Discussion

            Tiny Tina's Wonderlands, the spin-off from the Borderlands series, is a spellbinding hit. Tiny Tina serves as Dungeon Master, guiding players through a hilarious in-game role-playing campaign called Bunkers & Badasses. Our Editor-In-Chief, Andrew Reiner, regales us with wild tales from his time reviewing the tabletop-themed looter shooter.

Read our review to find out why we describe Wonderlands as "upbeat and fun from start to finish."

            The Playlist:

            Game Informer staff discuss the games they're playing.

            This week's playlist is packed. Blake talks about how the visual stylings and lore of Ghostwire: Tokyo's yokai spirits made him love an otherwise run-of-the-mill open-world game. John and Van Aken discuss the whimsy of Kirby And The Forgotten Land and its clever 3D platformer mechanics. 

Read our Ghostwire: Tokyo review here. 

            Listener Questions:

            The Game Informer crew answers your burning questions.

            This week’s Listener Questions focus on our favorite regionalisms, childhood gaming routines, and the games that have aged like a fine wine. Read this week’s questions below and submit your own via the Official Game Informer Community Discord or by emailing us at Podcast@GameInformer.com:

“Today, I learned Minnesotans play 'Duck, Duck, Gray Duck' instead of 'Duck, Duck, Goose.' What is your favorite regionalism?” - Shifujiu

“You’re a kid. It’s Saturday, and you’re playing video games. Your mom/parent/guardian brings you some awesome food to eat while playing. What are you eating, and what are you playing?” - Noah

“Sorry, but I got delayed submitting my question. Speaking of delays, which game did you pick up a while after it came out and thoroughly enjoyed because of the polish it accrued because of time? For me, it was Diablo 3. I heard it was a mess at launch, but by the time I jumped in, it was so so so good!” - Keith, a.k.a. Rocket Scientist

            For more Game Informer podcasts, check out Video Gameography, our video game history podcast, All Things Nintendo, which deep dives into Nintendo's library of games every week, and From Panel to Podcast, our latest show focusing on the world of comic books!

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Tiny Tina's Wonderlands

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

March 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Ghostwire: Tokyo

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

March 25, 2022 (PlayStation 5, PC), April 12, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Kirby and the Forgotten Land

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

March 25, 2022

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

Andrew Reiner, 
Alex Stadnik, 
Blake Hester, 
& John Carson
contributed to this article.

