
  Watch The Saints Row Reboot's Wingsuit In Action | Exclusive Gameplay






            The Saints Row reboot is introducing tons of new mechanics to the series, including a wingsuit to soar the skies of Santo Ileso! Watch our exclusive gameplay clip to see the mechanic in action.

If you enjoyed this video, be sure to check out our 12-page cover story to learn more about the upcoming reboot. Here's a snippet:

Volition may have scaled back the insanity of the series’ most recent entries but make no mistake: Saints Row is still all about satirizing today’s world through irreverent humor, profane actions, and an anti-establishment attitude. “We knew we didn’t want to abandon the humor or some of the more extreme things we can put into the game,” Boone says. “But we also knew that those extremes couldn’t necessarily be as far as they were in Saints Row: The Third. And that was a conscious thought on our part: Don’t go too far. That doesn’t mean we don’t have plenty of outlandish things in this; it’s just that when you think of the bar of Saints Row: The Third, I think sometimes people forget just how crazy we got with some of the things.”

This rebooted approach, which includes a fresh cast of characters in an all-new city, allows Volition to ditch the previous games’ accumulated narrative and gameplay baggage. “It really freed us up to be able to tell the story we wanted to,” Boone says. “Something the community would talk to us a lot about in Saints Row one through IV was, ‘Volition, it would be so amazing if you could do some sort of prequel and show how the Saints get formed!’ … With this, it gave us the opportunity to do that origin story, but not doing something that was set in the ‘80s or something like that to try and tell the origin of the Third Street Saints [from the previous games]. Now we can tell the origin story of these Saints.”

The decision to start with new characters wasn’t one the team made lightly, but they now feel it was the correct decision. “It’s definitely nerve-wracking at the beginning because there’s such a high bar to meet,” Campbell says. “We wanted to make really well-rounded characters because if they’re one-note, they’re not going to stand the test of time. We looked at the past characters, and what aspects about them really made them stand out, and what roles they filled. At no point did we want to just make a cookie cutter of, ‘We need a Johnny Gat character so let’s just reskin him as somebody else.’ We wanted all of these characters to be able to stand on their own.”

With the beloved characters of prior Saints Row games left in the past, Volition charted new territory for a new gang poised to take over a new city.

Please note that this Saints Row gameplay is pre-alpha footage supplied by Deep Silver and represents a game still in development.

If you haven’t yet, also be sure to check out our Saints Row exclusive coverage hub, read our 12-page cover story on the game with a digital or print subscription, and subscribe to the Game Informer YouTube channel so that you don’t miss any of our exclusive gameplay videos.

      Products In This Article

Saints Row

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 23, 2022

Purchase
More Info

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Apex Legends, Alex has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

