
  Why Everyone Is Obsessed With Baldur's Gate 3 | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, Alex Van Aken returns from a mysterious work trip to France to explain to Kyle and Marcus why everyone is obsessed with Baldur's Gate 3, Larian Studios' new computer role-playing game that continues to top the Steam charts. Later in the show, we discuss: Atlas Fallen, Deck13's action RPG that empowers players with sand-based abilities; Vampire survivors co-op on Switch; and why Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem competes with Barbie and Oppenheimer as one of the best movies of 2023. 

Before all of that, however, Marcus dives into his recent visit to Universal Studios's Minion Land and his sampling of the park's The Last Of Us-themed menu featuring a delicious pasta dish titled "Left Behind Ravioli."

Why Everyone Is Obsessed With Baldur's Gate 3 | GI Show – Video Podcast:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday to chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare-focused podcast. 

The Game Informer Show – Podcast Timestamps:

00:00:00 - Introduction

00:02:00 - Marcus' Universal Studios Adventure

00:33:18 - Baldur's Gate 3

00:56:28 - Vampire Survivors on Nintendo Switch

01:03:05 - Atlas Fallen

01:13:37 - TMNT: Mutant Mayhem

01:23:22 - Housekeeping

Check out a few photos above that Marcus snapped from his trip to Minion Land, featuring the delectable dishes from The Last Of Us.

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

Baldur's Gate 3

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 3, 2023 (PC), September 6, 2023 (PlayStation 5), December 7, 2023 (Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

Atlas Fallen

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC

Release Date:

August 10, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Vampire Survivors

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, Switch, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

October 20, 2022 (PC), November 10, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One), December 8, 2022 (iOS, Android), August 17, 2023 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

