
  Zelda: Tears Of The Kingdom Expectations And Game Boy Games On Switch | GI Show






            In this week's episode of The Game Informer Show, the crew excitedly outlines a few big reveals from yesterday's Nintendo Direct, including flying machines in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom and a collection of Game Boy games being released on Nintendo Switch yesterday alongside a surprise launch of Metroid Prime Remastered. Following news of a canceled single-player Titanfall game set in its shared universe with Apex Legends, the guys speculate about what happened to the project and share their ideas for what the game could've looked like. 

During The Playlist, we discuss the first hour of Octopath Traveller II, Goldeneye 007, Metroid Prime Remastered, and The Legend of Zelda: Minish Cap. 

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

Follow us on social media: Alex Van Aken (@itsVanAken), Kyle Hilliard (@KyleMHilliard), Marcus Stewart (@MarcusStewart7), Charles Harte (@ChuckDuck365)

The Game Informer Show is a weekly gaming podcast covering the latest video game news, industry topics, exclusive reveals, and reviews. Join host Alex Van Aken every Thursday for a chat about your favorite games – past and present – with Game Informer staff, developers, and special guests from around the industry. Listen on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.

Matt Storm, the freelance audio editor for The Game Informer Show, edited this episode. Matt is an experienced podcast host and producer who's been speaking into a microphone for over a decade. You should listen to Matt's shows like the "Fun" And Games Podcast and Reignite, a BioWare podcast. 

Jump to the timestamps to get to a particular point of discussion:

00:00:00 - Intro

00:02:45 - Single-Player Game Set In Titanfall, Apex Legends Universe Cancellation

00:16:05 - February 8th Nintendo Direct Reactions

00:40:51 - The Playlist/Octopath Traveler II

00:50:21 - Game Boy and GBA Games On Switch

01:02:37 - Goldeneye 007

01:11:33 - Housekeeping

Your browser does not support this audio player.  Download the file to listen.

The GI Show podcast is a weekly recap of exciting releases, exclusive details on upcoming games, and in-depth interviews with developers. Watch or listen to a new episode every Thursday!

      Products In This Article

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

May 12, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Metroid Prime Remastered

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

February 8, 2023

Purchase
More Info

    expand for more

Alex Van Aken
Video Editor
From real-time strategy games of the late 90s to MMORPGs of the mid-2000s and recent hits like Fortnite and Valorant, Alex Van Aken has spent his life trying to find a better multiplayer game than Halo 2.

Email
Twitter

