
                                          Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire
                  


  Sail The Seas Of The Deadfire Archipelago




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac, Linux

Publisher
Obsidian Entertainment

Developer
Obsidian Entertainment

Release
May 8, 2018

Rating
Mature

After meeting its initial goal of $1.1 million in just a day, Obsidian Entertainment continues to build more content into Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire through its Fig crowdfunding campaign. 
The most recent addition to the game is a Dyrwoodan sloop called the Defiant. This ship not only acts as players' base of operations to interact with party members, but also allows them to freely navigate and explore the world. Aided by a new world map, players can now enjoy a more open-world experience as they sail around the Deadfire Archipelago, discovering uncharted islands and stumbling onto special ship-related events.
As the trailer shows below, players can also customize and upgrade their ship. Sails can be changed to reflect players' alliances, the Defiant's hull can be repainted, and the cannons can be improved for more power in combat.
Sorry, this video is not available
With this announcement, Obsidian has also revealed several new stretch goals related to the game's new seafaring content. The first two of these goals, which add new ship upgrades and more islands to explore along with more language options, have already been met. If the $4 million goal is reached, players will gain the ability to purchase or even steal new ships.
The Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire Fig campaign ends February 24 at 5 pm PST. 
For more information about the crowdfunding project, check here. You can also read Matt Miller's review of the original Pillars of Eternity game here.

      Products In This Article

Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac, Linux

Release Date:

May 8, 2018 (PC, Mac, Linux), January 28, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

