
  Do We Really Need A Bloodborne Remake?






            From the moment PlayStation 5 was announced, fans have been asking for a Bloodborne remake or remaster. Now seven years old, Bloodborne is one of PlayStation 4's greatest games, showing developer From Software can do terrifying and exciting things within a gothic, Victorian setting. Summer is always a hotbed for video game announcements, and even without an E3 this year, the rumor mill is spinning at full force, teasing massive games that we may see revealed in the months ahead. One of those games is Bloodborne. If you asked me if I wanted a Bloodborne remake or remaster before February 25, 2022, I would have screamed, "YES!"

Ask me this question now, and my answer is a bit more low-key but still a "yes." When I played Elden Ring, I expected big things from one of gaming's most consistent developers but didn't expect the entire Souls genre to evolve in such meaningful ways. Elden Ring's freedom of exploration, depth to its dark secrets, and feeling of empowerment when overcoming great odds are magnificent and, in a way, make From Software's back catalog of games take on a classic sheen...even Bloodborne.

Moving forward, I hope we get more Elden Ring content, and From Software uses it as a template of sorts for future games, much like it did with Demon's Souls. Going back to the old Souls games won't be difficult given how they play. I know they'll still be fun and challenging, but I don't think I'll get as much out of them, not just because I already played them, but because Elden Ring is that good.

So yes, I want Bloodborne to come back with a current release that can help preserve it for generations to come. However, the PS4 version still looks damn good, and the need to enhance it isn't as necessary as it is for most games that get the re-release treatment. If it does come back, we'll likely see smoother action at 60 frames per second and the DualSense controller delivering better movement and feel. We could also see lost content restored, should any exist. No matter what this re-release is, I don't think we'll see any new content created specifically for it. For fans of the original PS4 game, Sony could create unique Trophies and challenges to refresh the experience and potentially have us explore it in different ways.

Time can be harsh to video games. Their evolution is constant, and seven short years can feel like a lifetime ago, given how much games change. I'm sure Bloodborne won't feel archaic, but it also won't be Elden Ring, the new gold standard for Souls games. Odds are development will be handled by a different studio, so From Software can focus entirely on the next flagship Souls game.

My stance on the remake has changed from "likely to play it" to "maybe." Just thinking of diving back into Bloodborne is more of a sign that I should probably start my second playthrough of Elden Ring instead.

What is your excitement level for Bloodborne's potential return? Do you have similar thoughts that Elden Ring makes going back difficult, or do you think Bloodborne has enough going for it to be just as amazing today?

      Products In This Article

Bloodborne

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

March 24, 2015

Purchase
More Info

