
  May Cover Revealed – Spider-Man






We played Insomniac Games’ Spider-Man, and we know its release date. The May issue of Game Informer is loaded with new details about the wall crawler's highly anticipated return to video games. Our hands-on impressions reveal what you can expect from the open world – the missions, side activities, collectibles, and more. We also dive deep into the web-swinging controls, combat complexity, and surprisingly deep upgrade paths, which include suit crafting.

We spent two days in Insomniac's studio learning about the development team's vision for Spider-Man on PlayStation 4. The team said the best Spider-Man stories are when Spider-Man and Peter Parker's worlds collide. That's exactly what they want to achieve with this game.

Our 14-page article features new screenshots, concept art, and details from Insomniac’s creative director Bryan Intihar, game director Ryan Smith, art director Jacinda Chew, lead writer Jon Paquette, and more. We take you through the opening of the game, the first mission, and plenty of open-world exploration. We also reveal the names of villains you may or may not know.

The issue's cover features custom artwork by famed painter Alex Ross. You can take a closer look at the full cover by clicking the image below:

Beginning tomorrow, Game Informer’s website kicks off a full month of additional Spider-Man coverage, including gameplay footage that shows off the open world and combat. You may even see Spider-Man wearing different suits. In the days that follow, we'll take you inside Insomniac’s studio for interviews with the developers and the actor who voices Spider-Man.

Sorry, this video is not available

In addition to Spider-Man, the May issue features a wealth of articles, including hands-on reports of Jurassic World Evolution and Nintendo Labo, and interviews with Reggie Fils-Aime and the Yakuza team. Game Informer staffers take a critical look at the state of games in opinion pieces like Kim Wallace’s “The Importance of Seeing Confident Women in Video Games,” and Matt Miller’s exploration of violence in interactive entertainment. And if you just want to read something humorous and strange, Game Infarcer returns. Darth Clark is in rare form.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. The digital edition of this issue launches tomorrow at 10 a.m. CT for PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

To see our entire month of Spider-Man coverage, click the banner below and bookmark our hub. New stories are added every couple of days, so check back to learn more about Insomniac's Spider-Man game.

