
                                          The Evil Within
                  


  New Evil Within Screenshot Gallery Shows 'Laura,' Other Horrors 




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Publisher
Bethesda Softworks

Developer
Tango Gameworks

Release
October 14, 2014

Rating
Mature

I played through the first five hours of Tango Gameworks' upcoming The Evil Within, and came across the spider-like creature pictured in the screenshot above. Tango hasn't given any of its creatures and demons proper names, but publisher Bethesda Softworks has lovingly named her "Laura." No one from Bethesda's team could tell me why this specific name was picked, but she's one of the few beasts to have adopted a name.
The picture above makes it look like protagonist Sebastian Castellanos has the upper hand in this particular encounter, and he may very well have it. In my playthrough, Laura appeared to be unbeatable. I fired off shotgun blasts, and almost my entire arsenal at her, but nothing seemed to hurt or even phase her. She scurried along the ground with those long arms and claws extended and tore Castellanos to shreds.
My only solution was to run for my life. That may be the only means of dealing with her in the first encounter. 
The other screenshots contained in the gallery below show off the atmosphere and lighting effects. The lantern is a crucial piece of Castellanos' inventory, often being called upon to illuminate darkened areas. The downside to its use: It can alert enemies.
Describing the screenshot with the steel bed would spoil one of the game's puzzles, but it does do a nice job of showing off how weird, gory, and cryptic The Evil Within can be at any given moment. Note the illustrations and writing on the walls.
For more on The Evil Within, read my cover story that journals the first five missions, and my interview with creative director Shinji Mikami.
We have a full month of horror-themed coverage set up for 
gameinformer.com, complete with video features and more. Be sure to 
visit our hub throughout the month for a steady stream of updates.

      Products In This Article

The Evil Within

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

October 14, 2014

Purchase
More Info

