
  The Little Touches In Spider-Man






In my write-up of Spider-Man, which appears in Game Informer's May issue, I detailed a moment where I stopped web swinging to explore the city on foot. In this brief detour from my mission, I was immediately struck with the sensation of the city being alive. I chuckled at the sight of yellow taxi cabs being everywhere, and found the sidewalks to be great for people watching. Some New Yorkers were standing around chatting with one another; others were going about their business. A few citizens even recognized me, and were quick to say hello or ask how I was doing. One brave woman even asked me for a selfie.
My walk veered into a small park between two apartment complexes. The park was lush with green trees and bushes, and I even saw a couple of squirrels dart in and out of cover. A basketball court sat at the center of the park. A few people were standing idle on the court, a ball at their feet. I used my webbing to pick up the ball, which I spun around my head before launching it into the distance. I was pleased by how much variety there was in the scenery, and it looks like there will be plenty of fun to be had just slowing the action down to take in the city.
We sadly don't have footage that shows off a moment like the one I just shared, but we do have some web swinging clips that give you an idea of how aware citizens are. The video you are about to watch also shows you how the game alerts you of side missions in different ways. Swinging through the city also brings the chance to listen to different things, such as J. Jonah Jameson's radio show, Just the Facts, which you'll hear briefly. This short blast of clips also shows you how Spider-Man expresses himself, either through jokes or with his eyes.
We hope you enjoy the video, and will join us next week for more developer interviews and insight into the game.
Sorry, this video is not available
To see our entire month of Spider-Man coverage, click the banner below and bookmark our hub.
 New stories and features are added every couple of days, so check back 
to learn more about Insomniac's Spider-Man game for PS4.

