
                                          Lego Dimensions
                  				 Review


  When Brick Worlds Collide




Reviewed on PlayStation 4

Also on
Xbox One, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Publisher
Warner Bros. Interactive

Developer
TT Games

Release
September 27, 2015

Rating
Everyone 10+

Lego Dimensions is the year’s best toys-to-life game, injecting the 
buildable fun of Lego toys into a hilarious adventure that sees Batman 
fighting side-by-side with Gandalf, Doctor Who, Homer Simpson, Scooby 
Doo, Portal’s Chell, the Ghostbusters, and dozens of other well-known 
characters. Developer TT Games has been making great Lego games for a 
decade, and this is one of the studio’s finest adventures yet – but it 
costs an arm and a leg if you want to see it all.One of
 Lego Dimensions’ earliest missions asks the player to put the 
controller down, open up a box of Lego bricks, dump them onto the 
ground, and follow an onscreen instruction manual to build a play set 
consisting of more than 250 pieces. This is an odd request for a game to
 make, since the process takes roughly 10 to 15 minutes to complete, but
 it represents Lego Dimensions’ hallmark feature: a functional toy 
component that is both fun and an integral part of the experience.Rival
 toys-to-life games, Skylanders and Disney Infinity, look great on 
shelves and are highly collectible, but don’t offer much in terms of 
real-world playability outside of the rare set of spinning wheels. Lego Dimensions’ toys are meant to be played 
with, and like any Lego set, make the imagination run wild with building
 possibilities.

Lego
 Dimensions' portal works remarkably well. It supports up to seven 
characters at once, and lights up with different colors for 
puzzle-solving purposes. It also loads character data quickly, adding 
and subtracting characters from the field of play within secondsThroughout
 Lego Dimensions’ entire adventure, TT Games keeps the toys’ appeal in 
the forefront, pushing players to take a break from pressing buttons to 
assemble a new Lego contraption, tear apart a vehicle to rebuild it in a
 different way, or move a minifigure to different places on the portal 
to trigger something within the game. Players don’t have to build 
anything if they don’t want to (the game only reads the base, not the 
arrangement of pieces on top), but I thoroughly enjoyed all of the 
building challenges and found many of the designs to be ingenious, 
especially given how few pieces are used for the builds. The game 
itself fits nicely into the lineage of Lego titles created by TT Games. 
If you’ve played any of these Lego titles, you know exactly what to expect from 
Lego Dimensions: plenty of fist-swinging to smash a Lego object into a 
sea of bricks, followed by holding down a button to rapidly reassemble 
the pieces into a different form. Puzzle solving is heavily sewn into 
all levels, and most characters play a different role in how these 
riddles are completed. Minikits and secret studs are hidden in every stage.Players can complete Lego Dimensions’ 
campaign using the core set’s three figures (Wyldstyle, Gandalf, and 
Batman). This means you don’t need to purchase any additional sets. If 
characters die in a level, you don’t have to hastily search on the floor other minifigures to take their place. Those characters instantly respawn, with the only penalty being a slight loss of 
studs, just like in any other Lego game. I finished a few levels using 
only the tiny assortment of core figures, and had a great time switching between them for various challenges.
However, as
 Batman tosses Batarangs, Gandalf illuminates darkened caverns, and 
Wyldstyle shows off her building skills, TT Games is constantly 
reminding the player that other characters are available for purchase. 
Unlike other Lego games, new characters are not unlocked through play. 
If you see a shiny metal object, a pile of dirt, or anything that looks a
 little suspicious in the world, you likely need a new character to 
interact with it – and these character-specific moments are numerous. 
You need to purchase a good portion of the characters and sets to be 
able to secure all 480 of the game’s Gold Bricks. Yes, you read that 
correctly; there are 480 Bricks to hunt down in the campaign, expansion 
sets, and variety of open hub worlds. The game is massive. For context, 
after finishing the campaign in roughly eight hours, I had collected just 25
 Bricks and just enough studs to upgrade my Batmobile to the next level.Completionists
 may feel the need to buy every set and figure, but it isn’t necessary 
to enjoy and finish the game. Of course, like any toys-to-life game, having an 
expanded roster makes Dimensions better. I didn't find a character that wasn't fun to play as. TT Games did a fantastic job making each one contribute in unique ways. Opening Portals to track down minikits as Chell is an absolute
 riot, Scooby Doo is faster than other characters and speeds up the hunt
 for mandatory hidden objects in levels, Justice League’s Cyborg is a 
one-man wrecking crew, and playing as the Wicked Witch from The Wizard 
of Oz is a real trip.If you don’t purchase any additional sets, that doesn’t 
mean you won’t get your Portal or Doctor Who fix. The campaign 
thoroughly explores every world and mashes them together in goofy ways, where 
you see The Lego Movie intersecting with The Simpsons, and find yourself
 hunting down Riddler trophies in Middle-earth’s Minas Tirith. Just 
seeing how the worlds will collide next is part of the fun. I 
giggled most of the way through the campaign, which is as funny as it is clever. 
Players
 won't be able to see everything Lego Dimensions has to offer until 
future sets (like Ghostbusters) hit retail shelves in the months following releaseMost
 of the voice actors from each brand reprise their roles. It’s a nice 
touch, as is the authentic music for each world. Hearing GLaDOS struggle
 to comprehend why her Test Chambers are being destroyed is wildly 
amusing, as is the bad ‘80s music in the Ghostbusters world.The 
unique bonus levels that come packaged with the Portal, Back to the 
Future, and The Simpsons sets are not as good as the campaign’s stages, 
and each only lasts for an hour or less. The best Portal and Simpsons moments are in the campaign. The open worlds for each brand 
don’t offer much story content and mostly consist of fetch or escort 
missions. These worlds are entirely optional, and aren’t great for 
anything other than mindless exploration and Brick collecting.Despite the extraneous content, Lego Dimensions is a hit. I haven't laughed this much playing a video game in a long time. I 
couldn’t wait to see what would happen next, and my wife 
even sat in to watch the story unfold in crazy ways. Whether you just 
purchase the core set or go bonkers purchasing figures, Lego Dimensions 
delivers big thrills and fun playability both in the game and on your 
living-room floor.

8.75

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptA toys-to-life game that puts just as much emphasis on playing with the toys as playing the game
GraphicsUnlike Disney Infinity, TT Games didn’t create a universal art style for all of the brands. Scooby Doo’s characters are cel-shaded, whereas the Lego Movie characters appear to be animated through stop motion. All of the worlds are beautifully rendered
SoundChris Pratt. Christopher Lloyd. Elizabeth Banks. Gary Oldman. Stephen Merchant. Most of the original voice actors from each brand reprise their roles and are quite funny. The music in each world is also authentic
PlayabilityTypical TT Games Lego gameplay (which is still fun after a decade of games) with the twist of moving characters on a portal to solve puzzles
EntertainmentThe best Lego video game in quite some time is also the best toys-to-life game of the year
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Lego Dimensions

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

September 27, 2015

Purchase
More Info

