
  Black Adam Electrifies In This Debut Clip From Dwayne Johnson's Movie






            Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and director Jaume Collet-Serra's superhero passion project is still a way off, but DC Fandome gave fans a look at the upcoming film, including a clip of the electrifying introduction of Black Adam.

Pierce Brosnan, who plays Dr. Fate in the upcoming blockbuster starts the segment with a big claim: "I've never seen the likes of it before. Having done James Bond for ten years, four films; nothing compares to this." Hawkman actor Aldis Hodge calls Black Adam "more brutal, uncompromising, fueled by the depths of his pain." Backed up by the clip we see introducing Johnson's title character in the movie, we may be in for a ruthless Black Adam portrayal. 

Johnson reveals Black Adam has entered the post-production process, gearing up for its release in theaters on July 29, 2022. In the video above, you can catch a glimpse of some concept art and a short scene from the film. The new footage shows a woman reading an ancient text carved on the stone floor after discovering a levitating crown. Upon reading the word "Shazam" aloud, the scripts glow and a bolt of lightning shatters the darkness in the ruins. A hooded Black Adam rises from where the bolt struck. He grabs a soldier electrocutes him, frying the man down to the bone. Adam then floats into the air as a volley of futile bullets bounces harmlessly off of his pitch-black suit. 

Check out the rest of the DC Fandome reveals and trailers including a new look at the Peacemaker HBO Max series, The Batman's newest trailer, Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League, and footage from Gotham Knights. Are you smelling what The Rock is cooking with his take on Black Adam? Will the movie live up to Pierce Brosnan's hype-filled words? Let us know what you're thinking about Black Adam in the comments!

            .

John Carson
Associate Editor
John likes to think of himself as a gaming Jack-of-all-trades. He'll give any game a shot just to know what it is. In his free time he can likely be found shuffling up Magic cards or trudging through an RPG.

Email
Twitter

