
  Voices And Items Added To Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl Today






            About nine months after its release, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is getting a big patch today, introducing two much-requested features that will hopefully make the brawler feel like a more well-rounded product. Developer Ludosity has announced it's finally adding character voices and items to the game today.

Alongside voice acting and items, here are the latest patch notes! pic.twitter.com/gfTHwtz4Tj
— Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl (@NickBrawlGame) June 6, 2022

Paired with some substantial character balance adjustments and stage changes, Nick Brawl's fighters will now have voices, with many of the original actors for these characters reprising their roles. This includes what looks to be a big rework of Sandy, which you can see in the embedded tweet above. Here's the complete cast list as revealed by the Nick Brawl Twitter account: 

Jim Cummings: Shredder / CatDog (Cat)
Tom Kenny: Spongebob / CatDog (Dog)
Bill Fagerbakke: Patrick
Carolyn Lawrence: Sandy
Alex Cazares: Oblina
Jim Meskimen: Nigel Thornberry
Richard Horvitz: Zim
Vivian Vencer: Toph
Dustin Sardella: Aang
Janet Varney: Korra
Fred Tatasciore: Reptar
Bentley Griffin: Lincoln Loud
Jessica DiCicco: Lucy Loud
Franchesca Marie Smith: Helga
Townsend Coleman: Michelangelo
Cam Clarke: Leonardo
Abby Trott: April O'Neil
Frank Welker: Garfield
Billy West: Ren & Stimpy
David Kaye: Powdered Toast Man
David Kaufman: Danny Phantom
Janice Kawaye: Jenny

With the entire cast getting voiced, it's safe to assume upcoming characters Hugh Neutron and Rocko will receive the same treatment. As stated before, items are also joining the game, but there's almost no detail on what those items may be or what they do in battle. We'll just have to play to find out.

The new Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl patch hits PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC today, with the Switch update coming later. PlayStation Plus members can claim a free copy of Nick Brawl until the end of June as part of the PS+ monthly game offerings alongside God of War and Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker.

      Products In This Article

Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Release Date:

October 5, 2021

Purchase
More Info

John Carson
Associate Editor
John likes to think of himself as a gaming Jack-of-all-trades. He'll give any game a shot just to know what it is. In his free time he can likely be found shuffling up Magic cards or trudging through an RPG.

Email
Twitter

