
  Here's Your First Look At Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name






            Today during Summer Games Fest, we got our first extended look at gameplay for Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name.

As previously revealed, Gaiden takes place between the events of Yakuza 6: The Song of Life and Yakuza: Like a Dragon, filling in the gaps of what longtime series protagonist Kiryu Kazuma was up to after faking his own death in the former before reappearing in the latter. 

From the looks of it, Kiryu, now being called "Codename Joryu," has been running jobs for a mysterious someone. As you might expect, this mainly means he's beating the holy hell out of dudes in the street. The trailer shows a variety of large-scale fights, as well as Kiryu's new fighting abilities, which include a rope-type weapon he can use to bring items and people closer to him.

Check out the trailer below:

As pointed out by Gematsu, Gaiden gameplay details actually leaked yesterday on the PlayStation Store. Here are some of the key details:

"Dynamically switch between the Yakuza and Agent fighting styles in visceral melee combat.

"With the Yakuza style, strike fear into enemies by unleashing wildly aggressive moves powered by Kiryu’s unparalleled strength and flair.

"Or up the ante with the Agent style by delivering blows with absolute speed and precision, while using an array of high-tech gadgets like electrified bind wires to stun enemies then send them flying.

"Strategically adapt to the situation and leverage both styles to dominate and destroy hordes of enemies."

"Whether you’re brawling in the secret Castle arena, singing a new karaoke song, enjoying a drink at the live-action cabaret club, or racing in the pocket circuit, the world offers a variety of immersive experiences.

"An intriguing informant named Akame also provides thrilling sub-missions, drawing you into an epic showdown that unfolds the more you explore and enjoy Sotenbori, Yokohama and the mysterious Castle."

Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name will be released on November 9, 2023. 

      Products In This Article

Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

November 9, 2023

Purchase
More Info

Blake Hester
Senior Associate Editor
Blake Hester writes about the people who make video games. Before joining Game Informer, he freelanced for outlets such as Polygon, Vice, USG, and Rolling Stone. 

Email
Twitter

