
  Hideo Kojima Announces Death Stranding Director's Cut, Talks Next Game






            Today during Geoff Keighley's Summer Games Fest, Metal Gear Solid and Death Stranding creator Hideo Kojima presented a brief look at Death Stranding Director's Cut for the PlayStation 5 – including ample inspiration from Metal Gear Solid, the series Kojima spearheaded for three decades at Konami. 

The trailer shows protagonist Sam Porter Bridges, played by The Walking Dead actor Norman Reedus, walking into an underground bunker patrolled by a number of armed guards. Sensing the path forward might be tricky, Bridges spies a cardboard box resting on a shelf beside him, which he then gets inside of. This is, obviously, an homage to Metal Gear Solid, where protagonist Snake would often disguise himself using a cardboard box to stealthily get past enemies. 

Check out the trailer below:

 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences

In terms of what's new in Death Stranding Director's Cut, the presentation was light on details. However, according to Keighley, the full reveal is "just weeks away." The footage only showed the PlayStation 5 logo.

On top of revealing Death Stranding Director's Cut, Kojima also gave an extremely brief tease at his next project. Following the release of Death Stranding in 2019, Kojima says his creative process has changed – mainly in light of recent real-world events, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. "It's almost similar to what happened after 9/11, considering which direction we should go as entertainment," Kojima said in a pre-recorded video interview with Keighley. "I think that this is a big assignment for us [creators]."

Speaking about his new project, Kojima said he didn't have much to share, but did say it would be different. "It won't be one step at a time," he said, adding that the next project would be a drastic change, while also retaining elements of actual society into the game to get players thinking. 

"With this speed of change, I need to really consider which prediction I make and which ways I introduce ideas to the player," Kojima said.

You can watch Keighley and Kojima's entire conversation in the video below:

.@HIDEO_KOJIMA_EN officially confirms Death Stranding Director’s Cut! 🤯 #SummerGameFest pic.twitter.com/0Ar5opzCzJ
— Summer Game Fest - LIVE Today! (@summergamefest) June 10, 2021

      Products In This Article

Death Stranding Director's Cut

Platform:

PlayStation 5, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

September 24, 2021 (PlayStation 5), March 30, 2022 (PC), January 30, 2024 (Mac, iOS)

Purchase
More Info

