
  April Cover Revealed: Thief






Eidos Montreal has been working for years to reboot the classic 
stealth series Thief, and the fruits of its labor will finally be revealed 
in issue 240 of Game Informer Magazine. 
Our April cover story is a world-exclusive look at this next-generation stealth title. Series hero Garrett returns to the

Gothic, industrial metropolis known simply as the City to steal any and 
everything that will make him richer. Unfortunately, the City is broiling with social tension as it is ravaged by a plague and lorded over by a political tyrant known as the Baron. In order to survive his adventures, Garrett will have to pay attention to his environment and make use of the may possible paths through each of the game's levels.
Square Enix plans to release Thief for PS4 and PC sometime in 2014, but the game is also planned for other next-gen consoles. Check out our coverage trailer for a taste of all the 
content you can look forward to absorbing over the next month. 
 You're missing out!Normally this is where something cool would show.  Your browser is blocking third-party cookies so we're unable to display this content.Try clearing your browser cache, disabling ad blockers, and verifying that cookies are allowed: Verify cookie preferences
Also in the issue, we take a look at Sony's PlayStation 4 as well as 
Bungie's follow up to Halo, a new sci-fi series called Destiny. We also 
research the harsh realities of mobile development and learn about the challenges small teams face when making a game. Ubisoft let us check out its new pirate game, Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag. We poke fun at the entire industry 
with our annual Game Infarcer feature, and then take an exclusive look 
at Trion Worlds and Syfy's MMO/TV show experiment Defiance. It's a lot 
of content, but don't forget to check out our classic feature on 
Pitfall, or our previews of The Last of Us, Remember Me, and Grid 2. 
It's a meaty issue; you're welcome.
Check out the full cover image below.

Print subscribers should start seeing their April issues in the next 
two weeks. If you can't wait that long, you can subscribe to our digital
 issue – which can be accessed by subscribers via your web browser, iPad, or Android
 devices now. Check our Twitter feed to find out 
the moment the digital edition of our April book goes live.If you aren't yet a digital subscriber, you can convert your print subscription here or start a new subscription here.
 You can also purchase individual issues or subscribe via the 
appropriate apps. If you prefer a physical copy of the magazine, contact
 backissues@gameinformer.com.Click the banner below to go to our Thief hub, where you'll find additional exclusive content throughout the month, such as these exclusive screenshots.

