
  Cover Reveal – Resident Evil Village






            Resident Evil is one of the longest-running horror franchises in the industry, but it hasn't survived this long without some change. With Resident Evil 7: Biohazard, Capcom brought the series into first person. For the follow-up, Capcom continues to explore first-person action, but the development team is also taking a few cues from the beloved Resident Evil 4 to create a more action-packed experience.

Horror fans shouldn't worry, however, because Resident Evil Village remains faithful to its horror roots, and the new werewolf-inspired Lycans are ready to run Ethan ragged. For this month's cover story, we chatted with Capcom about those new enemies, Village's titular town, and how the team has improved combat. We also got an exclusive look at some of Ethan's gear and offer a full breakdown on how players can upgrade weapons or hunt for food to create permanent health upgrades. Stay tuned throughout the month for a handful of additional stories about Resident Evil Village, including an exclusive gameplay video breaking down its upgrade systems.

Resident Evil Village isn't the only reason to read this issue. We spend eight pages looking at the best games currently available on Switch, then we round up some of the hot new TVs to use with a PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X/S. For those who want some humor, our annual irreverent send-up of the industry returns in our parody magazine Game Infarcer. Brian Shea also got a new demo of Nintendo's upcoming New Pokémon Snap game and offered his impressions on this unique photographing simulation. Meanwhile, Liana Ruppert talked with the team at Obsidian Entertainment for a behind-the-scenes look at how the studio created The Outer World's latest batch of DLC, Murder on Eridanos.

Finally, Kimberley Wallace takes a deep dive on Supergiant Games, the indie studio behind hits like Bastion and Hades. Supergiant offered so much great content that we actually couldn't fit it all inside this one issue, so we're blowing out our coverage on the website over the coming weeks, starting on Friday the 16 with the story behind Bastion.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming days/weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle. To subscribe to either the digital or print version, click here.

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil Village

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation VR2, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac, iOS

Release Date:

May 7, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC), October 28, 2022 (Switch, Mac), February 22, 2023 (PlayStation VR2), October 30, 2023 (iOS)

Purchase
More Info

