
  Cover Reveal – Wasteland 3






            Wasteland is the spiritual predecessor to Fallout, but this original post-apocalyptic RPG is often overshadowed by Bethesda’s blockbuster series. In this month’s cover story, we dive into the history that entwines these two legendary series and explain why Wasteland deserves its time in the spotlight. We speak with industry luminary Brian Fargo about his role in the creation of franchises like The Bard’s Tale, Wasteland, Fallout, and Baldur's Gate. Then, we go hands-on with an exclusive build of Wasteland 3 before talking with several members of inXile’s Entertainment that explain how their living world is shaped by every choice you make.

Our celebration of CRPGs continues with a brief primer on the history of the genre. If you’re new to this RPG subset, we have several pages dedicated to the best examples on the market, which acts as a handy guide that will help you find the perfect game to fit your mood. Finally, Daniel Tack takes a good hard look at the current state of computer role-playing games and prognosticates on its promising future.

Did you think that was all we had in this issue? Of course not. If you’re not an RPG fan, we’ve still got something for you. Andrew Reiner put together a massive roundup of all the games that have been announced for Microsoft’s new Xbox Series X console. Then we have two great features on a couple of promising games. First up are Daniel Tack’s hands-on impressions of Torn Banner Studios’ bloody first-person medieval action game, Chivalry 2. Then Kimberly Wallace takes a closer look at Bandai Namco’s colorful Scarlet Nexus, a sci-fi RPG that lets you tap into an array of wild mental powers to defeat an assortment of deranged mutants.

To round out the issue, we have previews on Assassin's Creed Valhalla, The Dark Pictures Anthology: Little Hope, Torchlight III, and Ghost of Tsushima. And don’t forget to page through our Gear section where we’ve compiled a roundup of game-themed survival gear, preview the new Pandemic board game, and review the TurboGrafx-16 Mini console. Enjoy the issue.

Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the coming weeks. The digital edition of this issue launches later today for PC/Mac, iOS, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook and Kindle later this week. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription, click here.

      Products In This Article

Wasteland 3

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

August 28, 2020

Purchase
More Info

