
  December Cover Revealed – Quantum Break






Remedy has a history of creating story-focused action games that play with television’s storytelling format. With Quantum Break, the studio has gone all out, creating a professional-quality, live-action show that will be bundled with the game. The process hasn’t been easy, but for a studio looking to rewrite the rules of video game storytelling, Remedy wasn’t expecting anything less. Since the game's announcement in 2013, we've seen bits and pieces about the game and its show, but in this issue of Game Informer we finally explain how both pieces fit together and break down exactly what players can expect from the final product. 
After Jack Joyce and his childhood friend Paul Serene get caught up in a time-travel experiment gone wrong, they both acquire time-manipulation powers. Unfortunately, that same experiment has created a fracture in time that threatens to bring time to a complete stop. Jack’s friend Paul jumps into the future seeking safety, only to emerge moments later as a much older version of himself who has become far more sadistic. Now, Jack must use his time powers to confront his friend and look for a way to fix time before it completely unravels.  
In the latest issue of Game Informer, we travel to Espoo, Finland and get the full scoop on Quantum Break’s lengthy development process. We break down exactly how the game and its show will work together to tell a larger narrative. The Quantum Break show will feature four episodes, but players’ actions during the game will change events in the show leading to wildly different events in each episode. Remedy also put a controller in our hands, so we have the world’s first hands-on impressions with the game. Quantum Break releases on Xbox One on April 5, but you can learn about how Remedy hopes to revolutionize video game storytelling by reading the issue later today. 
Click the above image to see the full cover spread
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our 12-page look at Quantum Break, we have a 10-page feature detailing the making of Bethesda’s sure-fire hit Fallout 4. The team at Frictional Games also shares their thoughts with us about the horror genre and their experience developing Soma, and composer Austin Wintory talks to us about his work on soundtracks for games like Journey and Assassin’s Creed Syndicate. Meanwhile, our annual Holiday Buying Guide is sure to give you some great gift ideas for your holiday shopping. 
The rest of our December issue is packed with more great gaming coverage. In addition to previews on games like Battleborn, Just Cause 3, and Deus Ex: Mankind Divided, we also have our first look at Far Cry: Primal. You can also check out the issue for reviews on games like Halo 5: Guardians, Assassin’s Creed Syndicate, and Guitar Hero Live.
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week 
or two, but you can access it later today if you subscribe 
digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad, Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Throughout the month, we’ll be rolling out all manner of video interviews and written features on the creation of Quantum Break, as well as a special edition podcast and much more. Click on the banner below to visit our Quantum Break hub and follow our coverage as it is published throughout the month.

