
                                          Infamous Second Son
                  


  Dissecting Delsin: A Profile On Sucker Punch’s New Protagonist




Platform
PlayStation 4

Publisher
Sony Computer Entertainment

Developer
Sucker Punch Productions

Release
March 21, 2014

Rating
Teen

After the events of Infamous 2, the series needs a new hero. Learn all about Second Son’s protagonist.  
Earlier, we explained the events that took place between Infamous 2 and Infamous Second Son, but since Infamous 2 left the series without a main protagonist, developer Sucker Punch had to go back to the drawing board and create a new hero for the third entry in the series. 
The studio came up with Delsin Rowe, a 24 year-old Native American male who is struggling to find his place in the world as he deals with his newfound superpowers. At the beginning of the game, Delsin doesn’t even know he has superpowers, but after saving a man from a wreck, Delsin discovers that he has absorbed the man’s smoke-based Conduit powers.
But who is Delsin, and what makes him tick? Before you spend an entire game with him, here are six meaty facts that will help you understand Second Son’s protagonist better.

Delsin’s power is the best power – During Second Son’s announcement trailer, Delsin was seen using all kinds of smoke powers, leading many to assume that his powers would be smoke- or fire-based. However, Delsin’s power is actually the ability to absorb other Conduits' powers. Sucker Punch wouldn’t elaborate any further on what other kinds of powers Delsin might absorb throughout his journey, but it stands to reason that Delsin will acquire a whole suite of new powers, which could range anywhere from ice-based blasts to electric attacks. Delsin’s power is like wishing for more wishes; it’s almost cheating.
He is full of reckless abandon – During development the team asked themselves, “What if Johnny Knoxville had powers? What would he do with it?” Delsin is not a skilled urban climber; his motions aren’t the fluid movements of a trained gymnast. This doesn't mean that Delsin won't be climbing all over the environment – he will – but he wasn't trained in that area. Delsin takes everything one step at a time. “He is completely getting off on his powers,” says animation director Billy Harper. “He says, ‘I don’t know how to jump off this cliff and I don’t know what will happen when I get there, but I’m just going to do it and see what happens when I get there.’”
He’s a street artist – Sucker Punch looked at street artists like Banksy for inspiration while creating Delsin. The studio loves that deftly drawn yet cheeky form of free expression that says something about society all while working in the middle of the night when no one is looking. That is the kind of guy Delsin aspires to be. Could this also mean that Delsin will spend part of the game tagging the walls of Seattle? Sucker Punch wouldn’t say, but it would make sense.
He wears a hat – Delsin’s beanie was based off a real hat worn by animation director Billy Harper. “We wanted Delsin to be a more artistically inspired type of guy,” says Harper. “We were all sitting around in a room and talking and realized that four out of six of us were wearing these hats.”
He is the representation of freedom – If the DUP represents security, and ultimately oppression, then Delsin represents freedom. A lot of people do things because they’re scared; Delsin is the opposite. He’s the kind of guy who isn’t afraid to make decisions or do what he wants. Delsin is unwilling to tow the party line, and always willing to speak his mind even if that means sticking his foot in his mouth.
You will influence him – “This is an Infamous game; you will make choices all along the way,” says game director Nate Fox. “That plays out in how people react to you and how the story ultimately concludes.” Sucker Punch didn’t go into any further detail about what those choices might be, or if Second Son’s choice system would reflect the morality systems from previous Infamous games, but the studio did assure us that the choices players make will give them a sense of ownership over who Delsin is.

Be sure to check out our cover hub for more details on Infamous Second Son.

      Products In This Article

Infamous Second Son

Platform:

PlayStation 4

Release Date:

March 21, 2014

Purchase
More Info

