
                                          The Elder Scrolls Online
                  


  Elder Scrolls Online Faction Profile: Aldmeri Dominion




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Publisher
Bethesda Softworks

Developer
ZeniMax Online Studios

Release
April 4, 2014

Rating
Mature

During the second era, in a time before any previous Elder Scrolls game, the world of Tamriel descended into a four-way war. In an attempt to conquer the continent, the Imperials – natives to the province of Cyrodiil – made a deal with the Daedric prince Molag Bal. At the beginning of Elder Scrolls Online, players join one of three factions that not only oppose the Imperials and Molag Bal’s undead army, but will also battle one another for the imperial throne. Elder Scrolls Online features three different alliances. Three different philosophies. Three different ways to approach the game. Which will you choose? Today we take a deeper look at the Aldmeri Dominion, represented by the Eagle on the ouroboros.

Zenimax Online’s Take:“The name says it all. The Aldmeri Dominion wants to dominate the world. They plan on taking over the world. Submit or die,” explains game director Matt Firor. “The Aldmeri Dominion is like, ‘we’re going to kill everyone that isn’t us. You people are going to help us or else.’”
Provinces:Valenwood is located in the southwestern region of the Tamriel. Home to the Wood Elves, Valenwood is covered by wide swaths of uninhabited forest. Swamplands and tropical rain forests dominate Valenwood’s coasts, but the nation’s most unique features are a few of its cities which are housed in giant, migratory trees. Valenwood’s capitol Falinesti, actually used to migrate south in the winter, but the tree containing the city has recently stopped walking. 
Summerset Isles are a group of islands located southwest of Tamriel. Not much is known about the geography of the Summerset Isles, since it hasn’t been featured in many Elder Scrolls titles, but it is largely inhabited by the Altmer (High Elves.)
Situated on the southern end of Tamriel, Elsweyr is homeland to the various breeds of the cat-like Khajiit. Fertile jungles and rainforests occupy the region's southern end, but much of the rest of the nation is covered in dry plains and harsh badlands. In the south, upper class plantation owners grow the hallucinogenic plant Moon Sugar, which is often processed into the narcotic Skooma. 
Races:The Altmer are a race of High Elf that inhabit the Summerset Isles. Slender with a pale golden hue, the Altmer are among the tallest of all races. They are not as physically capable as humans, and their height makes them less agile, but they are possibly the most intelligent and magically proficient species on Tamriel. Their magical skill also makes them susceptible to magical attacks. However, they are highly resistant to disease. 

The Bosmer are also known as the Wood Elves, and as that name implies, they are a people of the forest. Unlike their cousins, the Altmer, these elves prefer a simple lifestyle living in harmony with nature and exploring the beauty of the land. Both agile and quick, the Bosmer are excellent thieves and archers. 

Khajiit are a cat-like race known for their natural agility and stealth. This race is not very adept at manipulating magical forces, but their agility and keen intelligence make them fierce warriors. Mobile bands of Khajiit often travel across Tamriel selling wares or distributing skooma. Oddly enough, Khajiit often refer to themselves in the third person. 

If you missed it, check out our profile on the Daggerfall Covenant, and come back Friday when we take a look at the uneasy alliance of the Ebonheart Pact. Check out our Elder Scrolls Online Hub for even more ESO related content.

      Products In This Article

The Elder Scrolls Online

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Release Date:

April 4, 2014 (PC, Mac), June 9, 2015 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), June 16, 2020 (Stadia), June 8, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

