
                                          The Elder Scrolls Online
                  


  Elder Scrolls Online Faction Profile: Daggerfall Covenant




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Publisher
Bethesda Softworks

Developer
ZeniMax Online Studios

Release
April 4, 2014

Rating
Mature

During the second era, in a time before any previous Elder Scrolls game, the world of Tamriel descended into a four-way war. In an attempt to conquer the continent, the Imperials – natives to the province of Cyrodiil – made a deal with the Daedric prince Molag Bal. At the beginning of Elder Scrolls Online, players will join one of three factions that not only oppose the Imperials and Molag Bal’s undead army, but will also battle one another for the imperial throne. Three different alliances. Three different philosophies. Three different ways to approach the game. Which will you choose? Today we take a deeper look at the Daggerfall Covenant, represented by the lion on the ouroboros.

Zenimax Online’s Take:“There is a lot of historical friction between the redguards and the bretons,” explains game director Matt Firor. “There have been a lot of little wars between them, and there has been as much internal fighting in High Rock as there has been with external provinces, but it’s a much more settled area and a little more peaceful. The Bretons have given the orcs their own homeland within their territory, and all three races like and respect each other. This faction is a lot more democratic than the others.” 
Provinces:High Rock sits on the northwest end of Tamriel and borders both Hammerfell and Skyrim. The area is highly fertile, features generally mild weather, and is largely populated by the bretons, though it is also the home to the orcs. High Rock was the location featured in The Elder Scrolls II: Daggerfall – Daggerfall being one of High Rock’s oldest cities and its capital.
Hammerfell is an arid region composed largely of deserts, mountains, and grasslands. Home to redguards, Hammerfell is predominately an urban and maritime province. The interior of the region is thinly populated with tiny farmsteads and beast herds, while the outer rim is pockmarked with large trade cities. 
Races:Bretons are the descendants of the humans who settled in High Rock. They are averaged-sized people with fair hair and fine features. Bretons are supremely intelligent, willful, and very outgoing. What they lack in physical skill, they make up for with their ability to weave spells. 

Orcs are also sometimes referred to as Orsimer. This beastly warrior race hails from the Orsinium Area subsection of High Rock between the kingdoms of Menevia and Wayrest. Orcs are unflinchingly courageous and often feared, and orcish armor is often prized for its quality. 

Redguards call Hammerfell home but love to travel and adventure on the high seas. Quick and agile, Redguards are often skilled warriors with a blade and shield, and are known for their hardy constitutions and speed, which makes them capable scouts. 

That’s all for now. Come back Wednesday when we take a look at the ruthless Aldmeri Dominion. And check out our Elder Scrolls Online Hub for even more ESO related content.

      Products In This Article

The Elder Scrolls Online

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC, Mac

Release Date:

April 4, 2014 (PC, Mac), June 9, 2015 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), June 16, 2020 (Stadia), June 8, 2021 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

