
  Exclusive Wolverine Gameplay Details In Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3






            Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order looks to have a massive roster of supercharged heroes. We already know about 27 playable heroes, and there are more announcements to come, stretching across the Marvel universe and including characters from The Avengers, X-Men, Spider-verse, and more. As part of our month of coverage, we're highlighting a few of our favorites. Today we take a deeper look at one of Marvel's biggest heroes: Wolverine.

Alias: James “Logan” Howlett

Comic Debut

The Incredible Hulk #180-181 (October 1974)

Bio

Oh boy, this is complicated, but we’ll do our best. Raised in Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, sometime between 1882 and 1885, Logan was the illegitimate son of a wealthy plantation owner and a grounds-keeper. Logan spent most of his childhood in a sickly state, until his mutant powers activated during puberty. Later, he enlisted in the military and spent years wandering the globe before he was kidnapped by the Weapon X Program, which encased his skeleton with unbreakable Adamantium. Logan eventually breaks free and finds a family in the X-Men.

Powers

Regenerative healing factor; superhuman strength, stamina, and reflexes; heightened senses; retractable claws

Game Abilities

Claw Strike: Wolverine slashes forcefully with both sets of claws, then finishes with one last big slash.

Adamantium Assault: Wolverine jumps and performs a spinning uppercut that draws enemies closer and slices them to pieces.

Berserker Barrage: Wolverine jumps forward while spinning and slashing at anything in his way. Players can hold the attack button to aim this attack.

Primal Rage: Wolverine get angry. His attack power increase for a short time and he glows with rage.

Sorry, this video is not available

Playstyle

Wolverine has a lot of health and durability as well as a natural healing ability that makes him an ideal tank. He loves to mix it up close range, but he also has a few moves that allow him to dart across the battlefield. This knucklehead is great for managing large groups of enemies and giving other players some room to breathe.

Come back throughout the month, because we'll have more exclusive features and character profiles on Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order. Click the banner below to visit our hub. 

      Products In This Article

Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

July 19, 2019

Purchase
More Info

