
  Exclusive Spider-Man Gameplay Details In Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3






            Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order looks to have a massive roster of supercharged heroes. We already know about 27 of the playable heroes, and there are more announcements to come, stretching across the Marvel universe and including characters from The Avengers, X-Men, Spider-verse, and more. As part of our month of coverage, we're highlighting a few of our favorites. Today we take a deeper look at Marvel's newest Spider-Man: Miles Morales.

Alias: Miles Morales

Comic Debut

Ultimate Fallout #4 (August 2011)

Bio

Miles originally comes from an alternate reality. While visiting his uncle (who just happens to be a notorious super villain with the alias Prowler), Miles was bitten by a genetically enhanced spider similar to the spider that gave Peter Parker his powers, and Miles gains his own set of spider-powers. When Peter Parker (as Spider-Man) dies in a battle with the Green Goblin, Miles assumes the mantle of Spider-Man.

Powers

Superhuman strength, speed, and stamina; wall-crawling; near-invisibility camouflage; spider-sense; bio-electrokinetic shock

Game Abilities

Web Shooter: Miles releases multiple web blasts in front of him. Players can tap the attack button to produce more web attacks.

Surprise Strike: Miles turns invisible then closes in on enemies to strike with a burst of electricity.

Venom Strike: Miles drives both fists into the ground and releases a large sphere of electric energy in an area attack.

High Voltage Lines: Miles shoots a barrage of electrified webs at groups of enemies in front of him.

Sorry, this video is not available

Playstyle

Miles is a very acrobatic character. Most of his powers center on his ability to unleash electrical attacks, which stun or paralyze foes. As an agile hero, Miles can quickly dart across the battlefield and help offer support wherever it's needed. Like the rest of the Spider-Family, Miles can swing across the environment with his webs.

Come back throughout the month, because we'll have more exclusive features and character profiles on Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order. Click the banner below to visit our hub. 

      Products In This Article

Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order

Platform:

Switch

Release Date:

July 19, 2019

Purchase
More Info

