
                                          Lego Marvel Super Heroes
                  


  Goofing Around With Mr. Fantastic




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation Vita, 3DS, DS

Publisher
Warner Bros. Interactive

Developer
TT Games

Release
October 22, 2013

Rating
Everyone 10+

Galactus is coming to eat the world. Dr. Doom and Loki have teamed up
 and are making dastardly schemes. Only the world’s cutest superheroes 
can save the day. 
After Dr. Doom blows up the Silver Surfer's board, the pieces are 
scattered across the world. Marvel’s roster of heroes decides to collect
 these pieces and reunite them because they may be the planet's only 
hope for salvation. Throughout the game, players will see Silver Surfer 
looking dejected and depressed in the background. 
We’ve had several good looks at TT Games' promising new Marvel title 
in the past, but while at Gamescom 2013, we had a chance to tool around 
with a few new characters and explore some new powers for the 
pre-existing roster. 
Some of the new characters that TT Games announced at the show 
include: Archangel, Ghost Rider, Rocket Raccoon who may be short but has
 a big gun, Captain Britain (who enjoys tea), Daredevil, The Hulk’s foil
 General Ross (who can turn into the Red Hulk), Curt Connor (who 
transforms in the Lizard), Spider-Man foe Mysterio, and the Super Skrull
 (who has all the Fantastic Four powers). 
Sorry, this video is not available
Impressively, each character has their own unique set of powers. 
After tooling around on the Shield Helicarrier for a bit, we dove down 
to the game’s Manhattan hub to explore Mr. Fantastic’s feature set. 
While Captain America took a parachute down to the island, Mr. Fantastic
 transformed his body into a giant kite and floated safely to the 
ground. Players can playfully stretch Mr. Fantastic’s body into useless 
objects like teapots at any time, but when needed the character can also
 do useful things like stretch into a bolt cutter and cut open locked 
gates or slim down and snake through vents. TT Games said that Mr. 
Fantastic will be able to turn into things like a fire truck and a 
screwdriver at various points in the game. The team also wanted to get 
Mr. Fantastic to turn into a Kangaroo at some point, but unfortunately 
didn’t have the time to make that happen. 
Lego Marvel Super Heroes could be the largest Lego game to date. The 
title doesn’t seem to have any shortage of characters and their combined
 roster should keep comic fans busy for a long time when the game hits 
PlayStation 3, Wii U, Xbox 360, and PC on October 18 and then next gen 
systems later in November.

      Products In This Article

Lego Marvel Super Heroes

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation Vita, 3DS, DS

Release Date:

October 22, 2013 (Wii U, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation Vita), November 15, 2013 (PlayStation 4), November 22, 2013 (Xbox One), February 18, 2014 (3DS, DS), October 5, 2021 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

