
  January Cover Revealed – Mega Man 11






Mega Man was once one of the biggest brands in gaming, but after longtime Mega Man director Keiji Inafune left Capcom in 2010 the character went on a hiatus. Many fans worried Mega Man was dead. Fortunately, that is no longer the case. Mega Man is back and he looks better than ever in a new game full of the classic action/platforming gameplay.
For our January cover story, we traveled to Capcom’s headquarters in Osaka, Japan to get the full scoop on Mega Man 11. We chatted with the developers to get a better understanding of how they’re changing Mega Man’s look and what they have done to update Mega Man’s gameplay for a modern audience while holding true to the formula fans have loved for over 30 years. We also played through two levels of the game and share our hands-on impressions of combat and enemies. Finally, we look back at Mega Man’s impressive 30-year history and explore what made those early Mega Man games so special.
You can check our cover by clicking the image below to open the full spread.

We also have a month of exclusive online coverage for Mega Man 11, including interviews, videos, gameplay impressions, and more. Watch our coverage trailer for the full breakdown.
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to a host of exclusive details on Mega Man 11, this issue features our look back at Final Fantasy XV and Square’s push to support the game long after release. Elise Favis also explores how indie developers are taking big risks to tell stories in new ways. Kyle Hilliard rounds up the best mobile games of the year, while Matt Miller rounds up the best video game-themed board games you can spend money on. We also have previews for Sucker Punch’s new game Ghost of Tsushima, The Last of Us Part II, Dragon Quest XI, and we find out what’s coming down the pipe for Overwatch.
Print subscribers can expect their issues to begin arriving in the next few days. Can’t wait that long? The digital edition of the issue is available later today on PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
To see our entire month of Mega Man 11 coverage, click in the banner below and bookmark our hub. We'll have several stories to add to it in the coming days and weeks.

