
  May Cover Revealed – Deus Ex: Mankind Divided






The original Deus Ex is one of the most critically acclaimed shooter/RPG hybrids of all-time. In 2011, Eidos-Montreal resurrected the dormant franchise with Human Revolution, giving the series an updated look while remaining true to the player choice-driven gameplay. Eidos-Montreal knew its game wasn’t perfect, and has worked to improve the series' combat systems and boss encounters for the latest entry in the series – Mankind Divided.
Set in 2029, two years after the events of Human Revolution, Adam Jensen returns and joins forces with an Interpol-funded task force aiming to hunt down and capture augmented terrorists in a world that now hates and fears transhumans. Jensen has a new suite of augmentations that allow him to cleverly navigate stealth, combat, and social interactions, but how Jensen chooses to solve every problem is entirely up to you. 
At the end of Human Revolution, the Illuminati caused every transhuman to go into a fight-or-flight response and attack anyone near them. In the next issue of Game Informer, you can find out how this event caused humanity to hate and fear those with augmentations. We spent two days in Eidos-Montreal's studio, talking with the team and learning about how they build a realistic future. We go in depth on some of Jensen's new augmentations that help improve the stealth and combat systems, such as the ability to remote hack electronic objects, fire off his nano blade from a distance, and surround himself with a nearly indestructible nanoshield. We also got some great examples on how the game will be as open ended as ever, allowing players to carve their own path through the world. You can only get these details in the latest issue of Game Informer.
Deus Ex: Mankind Divided doesn't yet have a release date, but it's headed to PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Click the above image to see the full cover spread
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our 12-page look at Deus Ex: Mankind Divided, we also dive into the history of Mortal Kombat's fatalities, provide a look forward at this coming year’s VR products, and examine the history of the Cyberpunk genre and its influence on games. We also have interviews with Microsoft Studios vice president Kudo Tsunoda, who gave us some insight into the company's development process, and Turtle Rock’s co-founder Phil Robb, who provides an insightful postmortem on Evolve.
The rest of our May issue is packed with more great gaming coverage. In addition to rounding up the best indie games from GDC, we take an extended look at Sword Coast Legends, a new Dungeons & Dragons game based on the fifth edition ruleset. For previews, we get hands-on time with Starcraft II: Legacy of the Void, Final Fantasy XV, and Rainbow Six Siege.
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week 
or two, but you can access it now if you subscribe 
digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad,Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Throughout the month, we're revealing all manner of video interviews, 
written features on the world of Deus Ex, 
a special 
edition podcast, and much more. Click on the banner below to visit our Deus Ex: Mankind Divided hub and follow our coverage as it rolls out 
throughout the month.

