
  Exclusive Reveal: Meet The New Cast Of Gears Of War 4 






Gears of War 4 is set almost 25 years after the events of Gears of War 3,
which means that players will be introduced to a largely new cast.
Thankfully, developer The Coalition has assembled a capable cast of voice actors whose resumes include an impressive list of video game and television work. Come meet
the three new vocal leads for Gears of War 4. 

JD FenixJD Fenix is the
primary protagonist in Gears of War 4, and the son of legendary war hero Marcus
Fenix. JD is an idealist who ran away from home at a young age to join the the
COG militia only to go AWOL after a classified incident that players will learn
more about during the game.
Played by: Liam
McIntyre who is best known for his work as the male lead in the Starz series Spartacus. He also recently
played the Weather Wizard on the The CW show The Flash. 
McIntyre on JD: "It's
kind of terrifying, because I get to be the lead in a new era of Gears, which
is unbelievable, amazing, and exciting. I'm the legacy, because my dad is Marcus
Fenix. JD's a soldier and a bit of a freedom fighter, and in his heart he's a
bit of a renegade. He's different from Marcus, but he's still that heroic
archetype.

Kait DiazKait Diaz was
born and raised outside of the walled city-states protecting most of
humanity. Her parents were leaders of this group of Outsiders, but her father
died tragically years ago. Kait isn't familiar with how the COG works, but she
is a capable survivalist who forms a quick friendship with JD. 
Played by: Laura
Bailey, who is an accomplished voice actor, with roles
as Kid Trunks in Dragon Ball Z, Spartan Olympia Vale in Halo 5: Guardians, and
Jaina Proudmoore in World of Warcraft, among others.
Bailey on Kait:
"What's interesting about her is that she grew up as an Outsider, so she's been
away from this military environment that the boys grew up in. It's fun to do
her dialogue because she approaches it from a different place. She has a less
technical approach to everything she does because she's never experienced
anything like this. She's a great entry point into this world, because she
doesn't know everything about it either."

Delmont "Del" WalkerDelmont "Del" Walker
is another ex-COG soldier. Del was an orphan who became friends with JD at
boarding school. When JD ran off to join the Army, Del followed his lead. Unfortunately,
Del was also involved with the classified incident that sent both of them
running out into the wilds of Sera, seeking refuge among the Outsiders. Still,
Del remains deeply loyal to JD. 
Played by: Eugene
Byrd, who recently played Marcus "Boomer" Boone in last year's shooter
Battlefield Hardline. He also appears as a recurring cast member on
television shows like Arrow and Bones. 
Byrd on Del: "Del
is cool. I had to play up the nuance because the friendship between him and JD
meant a lot, so getting to know [Liam McIntyre] and actually becoming friends
with him helped us play together. I think Del wasn't a clean slate, so I had to
give him a bit of a backstory, but then we were able to evolve it. We're
actually building it while we're doing it."
Our Gears of War 4 coverage doesn't end with our sizeable, 14-page 
cover story. Return to our hub throughout the month for more information
 on the new weapons and enemies, the history of The Coalition, and a 
roundtable with the game’s voice actors. You can access the hub by 
clicking on the banner below.

