
  Mega Man 11 Lead Developers Pick Their Favorite Mega Men






Before working on Mega Man 11, the development team at Capcom played through the entire original Mega Man and Mega Man X series, so we decided to ask the leads which Mega Man game was their favorite. Here are the Mega Man games that specifically inspired the design of Mega Man 11.

Director Koji Oda (previously worked on Resident Evil 0, Strider, Dead Rising: Chop Till You Drop)"I'd have to say Mega Man 1, because when I first tried it out there were a lot of things to be surprised about. The fact that you were able to choose which stage you wanted to try out first was great, and I loved all the different weapons that you get. But despite all the different weapons, the core gameplay was still intact. I felt like, every time you played it, you could discover something new. On top of that, you got a sense that you kept getting better the more you played. I thought that was really cool."

Producer Kazuhiro Tsuchiya (previously worked on Asura's Wrath, Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo, and Mega Man 7)"It's a difficult question to answer, but if I had to pick one game it would be Mega Man 7, and the reason is because I was part of R&D.; I was a programmer at the time, and I worked on all of the weapon bosses and some of the gimmicks [one-off sequences] from the stages, as well as all the programming for the character Bass."

Art director Yuji Ishihara (previously worked on Mega Man Battle Network series, Mega Man Legends, and Resident Evil)"I would say Mega Man Battle Network. I thought everything about it was fun, from the plot to the gameplay to the design. But from a design standpoint, I would say the very first Mega Man. I think there was a real beauty and simplicity to that title."

Audio director Ryo Yoshii (previously worked on Resident Evil 5 & 6, Monster Hunter 3, and Dragon's Dogma)"Mega Man 2, because it was the first game I really got into. When Mega Man 1 came out, I had a Nintendo at home, but I was still a little kid at the time, with no money, so it's not like I could go out and buy the game for myself. My only exposure to that was going to my neighbor's house. But right around the time that Mega Man 2 came out, I had saved up enough allowance to go out and buy the game myself. One of my neighbors told me that I should fight Metal Man first. I remember thinking that he was incredibly difficult, and just taking forever to beat him. That was my first exposure to really trying, and falling in love with, the franchise."
Click on the banner below to enter our constantly-updating hub of exclusive features on Mega Man 11.

