
  The Powers In Prey Are Out Of This World






Much like Dishonored, Prey is a shooter that equips
players with an array of otherworldly powers. That's good, because the space
station Talos I is teeming with dangerous aliens that are ready to turn you into
another husk of space debris. Arkane's awesome arsenal of abilities opens up a variety
of ways to approach each combat encounter and environmental challenge. Here's a
quick breakdown of some of the out-of-this-world powers at your disposal in
Prey, as well as a couple of the unique man-made weapons. 

PowersAll of the aliens in Prey possess their own unique abilities.
As you encounter new aliens, you can analyze their genes and alter your own DNA to give yourself their incredible powers. Players are able to upgrade their abilities through a tool called the Neuromod – a
device that uses light to scan and measure the brain before making changes to it. 
When players use one of Prey's alien powers, they enter Psy mode. This mode temporarily slows down time, allowing players to precisely place their powers wherever they want them. This altered time state isn't a full time stop; players can actually move while in Psy mode. They can strafe to avoid enemy attacks, but the world around them continues to step in sync with them. but Psy mode gives players added time to think during the heat of battle. As long as players are still, the rest of the
world is still. The idea plays off the concept that as players incorporate
more Typhon abilities, they become hyperfocused and hypersensitive to what's
going on.
All of the abilities in Prey feature cooldowns, so you can't
spam them several times over. However, throughout your journey, you can expand
your Psy pool and find upgrades that reduce the cooldowns of
these powers. Players don't want to overdo it, however, because a Typhon monster called the Nightmare is chasing them throughout the Talos I station, and the more Neuromod abilities they equip, the
easier it is for the Nightmare to hunt them down. 
Here's a quick breakdown of some of the
powers players have access to: 
Lift Field – Players learn this move from
the invisible Poltergeist enemies. Essentially, Lift Field allows you to create
a reverse gravity field that sends objects and enemies skyward. Players can also use Lift Field like a makeshift elevator to access new
areas or hidden alcoves.  
Kinetic Blast – Some powers don't need to be more complex than
they sound. Kinetic Blast is basically a really strong physics pulse that you
can pinpoint to a specific location. It functions like a kinetic bomb that you
can drop in the environment. Players can use Kinetic Blast to push objects closer
to them, push environmental hazards away, or to simply damage enemies.  
Leverage – This physical ability allows you to lift heavy
objects with ease and even throw them across the environment. Using leverage, you
can clear blocked paths or throw massive objects and enemies, killing them
instantly. 
Mimic – One of the strangest abilities in the game, Mimic
lets you assume the form of almost any other object. Using Mimic,
you can transform into something small, like a coffee cup, in order to roll
through a crack in a door. Or, you can use it to transform into a chair while
being chased by monsters, and ultimately elude their pursuit. 
Mindjack – You learn this ability from the deadly
Telepath alien. This Neuromod lets you telepathically assume control over
another human. Another unknown creatures grants you a similar ability to take
control over robotic entities. 
Psychoshock – This powerful ball of psionic energy is a
direct attack against biological targets. It also temporarily disables the
target's ability to use psi powers. 
Remote Manipulation – Using your mind, you can retrieve or interact with distant objects. If you use this in conjunction with Leverage,
you are able to remotely pick up or even throw fridge-sized objects across the
room. 
Superthermal – An ability similar to Kinetic Blast. However, when you
set off this bomb, it detonates in an explosion of super-heated plasma that
deals fire damage to a target area. You can use this to create traps for enemies or just turn them to ash.

WeaponsPrey has its fair share of shotguns and pistols, but here
are the more creative tools of destruction worth highlighting. 
Disruptor Stun Gun – This weapon isn't sexy, but it's a good non-lethal tool. This handheld
electroshock weapon immobilizes both humans and machines with a short range
electric current. The disruptor is especially useful when someone is being
mind-controlled and you don't want to kill them. 
GLOO Cannon – Short
for Gelifoam Lattice Organism Obstructor, this defensive weapon fires a stream of glue-like
foam that can block or subdue targets. It's also useful for sealing off dangerous gas
leaks or creating makeshift ladders to out-of-reach places. 
Recycler Charge –
As the name implies, these handheld devices are portable recyclers. Originally created as a prototype, players use them like grenades. When detonated, a recycler charge creates a kind of miniature black hole that attracts
any object not bolted down and breaks it down into material fragments.
The remaining materials can then be used to craft new items, meaning the recycler charges are both destructive and constructive.

Be sure to come back throughout the month for more information on 
Prey. We have more features and video interviews, including information 
on the specific influences that Arkane’s art team drew upon when 
designing Talos I.

