
  Would You Vote For Any Of These Video Game Presidents?






Today America voted for its next President. Is it too late to change our vote to one of these five video game presidents? Which of these fictional Commander-in-Chiefs would you vote for?

President Adam Benford from Resident Evil 6

Political History: President Benford, A.K.A. President Evil, is close friends with both Leon and Sherry; Sherry even refers to him as uncle. Benford helped recruited Leon as a U.S. Government Agent. In Resident Evil 6, he tried to do the right thing by telling the American people the truth about what happened in Raccoon City, but he ended up with a craving for human flesh and a fatal case of bullet through the brain.

Controversy: Cannibalism. Can we really trust a president who eats human flesh?

Solidus Snake from Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty

Political History: You thought Obama was the 43rd President of the United States, but according to Metal Gear it was George Sears -- the third "perfect" clone of Big Boss. Sears fought in the Liberian Civil War as a teenager and was voted into the White House in 2001, making him the youngest man in history to be elected President. Sears' administration was characterized by its stance on nuclear disarmament and anti-eugenic policies. He also loves swords and cybernetic octopus arms.

Controversy: Confusing backstory. Should we be proud of the sins Sears has committed or ashamed of the fact that he associates with vampires?

Michael Wilson from Metal Wolf Chaos 

Political History: In the near future, America faces a state of civil and economic unrest. A few states attempt to secede and protect their own interests. Michael Wilson -- a descendant of Woodrow Wilson -- deals with this problem the only way any respectable President would: He jumps inside a battle mech and liberates each state one by one.

Controversy: Health care. Throughout the game, Wilson was suspiciously quiet about his stance on the state of American's health care system. What's he trying to hide?

President Ronnie from Bad Dudes Vs. DragonNinja

Political History: One thing we know is that Ronnie's security kinda sucks. After he gets kidnapped, it's up to two really bad dudes (also known as White Pants and Green Pants) to rescue him. Doesn't he have Secret Service for this? Anyway, after he gets rescued, he invites you out to get a burger. See, he's just a normal guy like you and me.

Controversy: Burgers. Are you trying to make us fat, Ronnie? Maybe he should have run on an organic, soy-based vegan burger platform.

John Henry Eden From Fallout 3

Political History: After the nuclear holocaust, John Henry Eden rises up to establish order in a chaotic wasteland. Eden often talks about how he will rebuild America into a great nation through his radio monologues. Of course, later in the game it's revealed that Eden is actually an AI program installed on a pre-war supercomputer and was based on a combination of personalities from every past President of the United States.

Controversy: Actually, we can't think of one. This might be the perfect President.

