
  Where To Start With Quantum Break's Narrative






Remedy has always told
ambitious stories. The studio's newest title, Quantum Break, is full of time
travel, evil corporations, quantum time stutters, and men who age 17 years in
five minutes. It might sound confusing, but it's actually a pretty cool concept.
So pull up a chair and listen while we give you the ultimate Quantum Break
story primer. 
Sure, I guess. I'm trying to procrastinate so I
don't have to do any real work.
Great, so here's the
quick lowdown. Quantum Break is the next game from Remedy Entertainment – the game
studio that brought us Alan Wake and the first two Max Payne games. It's set
around the fictional East Coast university town of Riverport, and revolves
around a science experiment that goes horribly wrong, causing the flow of time
to break down and eventually stop altogether. 
Does that mean our universe would cease to exist?

Not quite, it just
means the universe would be permanently paused, but from our perspective that
would seem pretty much the same. It's a bit of a wibbly-wobbly, timey-wimey
mess. 
This already sounds confusing. 
Don't worry, it's not
that bad. Why don't we talk about some of the main characters? 
Sure, I heard that this game stars Iceman.
Yeah, that's Jack
Joyce. He's the main hero, who's played by actor Shawn Ashmore (best known as
Iceman from the X-Men films). Jack is a good-old American boy who has spent the
past six years traveling the world. He returns to his hometown at the request
of his best friend, Paul Serene. 
That's Littlefinger from Game of Thrones, right? I've seen the trailers.
Yes, the actor's name
is Aidan Gillen. Anyway, Paul is in the middle of an ambitious physics project
at Riverport University. Basically, he's trying to build a time machine. The project
is essentially complete and ready for a test run, but Paul's investors have
grown worried and suddenly the entire project looks like it might get scrapped – so Paul is eager to prove his project works. He asks Jack to take a
clandestine trip to the lab for an unauthorized test run that he hopes will
give him the data he needs to appease his investors. 

Let me guess; it all blows up in their faces? 
Yeah, well, pretty
much. But before that can even happen, Jack's estranged older brother, Dr.
William Joyce, turns up. 
He's played by the Hobbit that was on Lost, right? 
That's right,
wilderness enthusiast Dominic Monaghan. Anyway, Dr. Will is a bit of an
eccentric and obsessive physicist, but his earlier theoretical work on quantum
physics helped form the basis for Paul's experiment. 
Okay, so he's jealous that they're working on
it without him? 
Not quite, he's
worried that they're going to completely blow up time. In fact, Will is the one
who tipped off Paul's investors to the fact that this time-machine experiment
might not be entirely safe. Will is extremely worried that the machine will
cause a fracture in the time/space continuum that could lead to the timey-wimey
apocalyptic event we talked about earlier. So when Will shows up and sees
that Jack and Paul are taking the time machine on an unauthorized test run, he's
not happy. Oh, and he has a gun. 
Then things blow up?  
Yes... well sort of. The
time machine starts to emit a strange pulse that hits both Jack and Paul.
Immediately afterward, time freezes. However, both Jack and Paul are mysteriously
unaffected by this time stutter. When time resumes, armed men from Monarch
Solutions storm the lab. Jack and Will manage to escape, but Paul is trapped
inside the time machine and chooses to flee into the future.
Hold on, what is Monarch Solutions? 
Monarch is a bit of a
mysterious organization. It's basically a giant technology corporation that has
been working on its own time-travel technology. Monarch is the main foil in the
game. 
So they've been working alongside Paul on their
own time travel technology.
Well, that's not
clear. In fact, it's a little confusing, because after the time-machine
disaster, Monarch seems to have changed a bit. One big change is that a Paul is
now CEO of Monarch Solutions.
I thought he escaped into the future. 
He did, but he comes
back after a bit – only when he comes back he's 17-years older than before, and he's spearheading Monarch's ruthless
charge to experiment with time. 

Wait, so after traveling into the future, did
he suddenly turn around and travel into the past to help found Monarch
Solutions?
That's a good
question. 
So what's the answer?
...
Okay, well now that he's back and in charge of
a powerful organization can he help fix time?
Something in the
future seems to have scared Paul, even damaged him. When Paul gets back, he acts
like he wants to prevent the end of time, but he's steamrolling a lot of people
along the way. Case in point, when Will refuses to help Paul further experiment
with time, Paul kills him right in front of his brother.
Whoa, that's cold blooded. 
It's reptilian. 
So, naturally, Jack probably wants revenge on
his best friend for killing his brother. Sounds like a Greek tragedy. 
You got it.
Thankfully, that mysterious pulse of energy that came out of the time machine gave
Jack some time-manipulation powers of his own, which will come in handy when
he's fighting off Paul's hordes of Monarch security goons. Unfortunately, Paul has
the same time powers, and he has almost two decades worth of experience using
them, so Jack will have to get used to them fast if he has any hope of fighting
back against Paul and stopping the quantum fracture from spreading before time
literally runs out.
Okay, don't tell me any more about this game,
I'm ready to play it. 
Great, it comes out on
April 5, so put it on your calendar. I know how forgetful you are.
Wait a minute, you sound familiar. Have I been
talking to a future version of myself who's already played the game? 
;)
To learn more about Quantum Break, see new gameplay, and for features such as this 100 question interview with creative director Sam Lake, click on the 
banner below to enter our hub of exclusive content rolling out 
throughout the month.

