
                                          Resident Evil 6
                  


  Exclusive Screens Reveal Zombie-Tossing, Mercenaries Mode




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Publisher
Capcom

Developer
Capcom

Release
October 2, 2012

Rating
Mature

To celebrate our month of coverage for the Hot 50 2012, we're rolling out eight exclusive Resident Evil 6 screens. These gory, over-the-top screens hint at some surprising new twists for the game. A behemoth of a boss towers over our heroes, Chris chucks a zombie at other zombies, and a flesh-eater rises from the grave.

This screen hints that players will have the ability to pick up enemies and throw them at other enemies. It's not necessarily safe when dealing with biohazardous monsters, but it looks cool.

Could this be some sort of tiki party tucked away in Tall Oaks, or has Leon arrived in China at this point?

An odd new J'avo transformation. We're not totally sure what's happening here.

Chris, Piers, Sherry, and Jake team up to take on what appears to be one of the Resident Evil series' biggest foes.

Capcom says four-player co-op will become available at select points in the game. Thankfully, it appears that you'll be teaming up with friends to take on his humongous boss.

Does the C-virus reanimate the already deceased? This shot of a zombie crawling forth from a grave suggests that's the case.

Jake Muller looks like he inherited some melee fighting ability from his father, Wesker.

This glimpse at Mercenaries mode suggests players will be on a cruise ship at some point. Traditionally, maps in Mercenaries mode are based off single-player locations. Does this mean the campaign will take the player out to sea?
Visit our hub for the Hot 50 2012 for more on Resident Evil 6, Castlevania; Lords of Shadow - Mirror of Fate, and more.

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 6

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

October 2, 2012 (PlayStation 3, Xbox 360), March 22, 2013 (PC), March 29, 2016 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), October 29, 2019 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

