
                                          Resident Evil HD Remaster
                  				 Review


  Extreme Makeover: Spencer Mansion Edition




Reviewed on PlayStation 4

Also on
Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Publisher
Capcom

Developer
Capcom

Release
January 20, 2015

Rating
Mature

The PlayStation-era of games is often criticized as a
generation that has aged poorly, thanks to muddy 3D visuals and controls. The
2002 GameCube remake of 1996's Resident Evil fixed the former, but some still
found the infamous tank controls cumbersome. This new remastered HD iteration
frees the game from its sluggish shackles like a doberman freed from its winter
booties.
The visuals have received an impressive overhaul, from the
exquisitely detailed backgrounds to the 3D character models. You can even play
as Jill or Chris as they appear in RE 5 - it's a fun treat seeing these
alternate appearances in cutscenes. Some vignettes are still terribly graining,
like draining the courtyard pool or the end credits, but for the most part the
mansion looks appropriately creepy and worn in. I did notice some minor
graphical issues, like limbs or shadows clipping through bookcases or doors,
but they're rare enough that they don't distract for long. 
The new widescreen view is great as well. The zoomed-in 16:9
perspective sacrifices some of the vertical screenspace from the original 4:3
view, but at the benefit of a wider horizontal axis. The changes, including the
subtle camera panning, are subtle and it's become the way I prefer to play.
Speaking of preferred play styles, the biggest changes
involve the new control scheme and easier difficulty option. The modern control
scheme allows players to move in the direction they point the analog stick,
opposed to the classic tank controls. The result is a liberating, intuitive,
and immediately satisfying. Unfortunately some of the enemy AI can't compensate
for the S.T.A.R.S. team's newfound agility, trivializing certain battles. For
instance, I can now safely slash a single zombie to death with a knife and run
circles around the giant snake boss. However, the game still retains its
rewarding difficulty when players are faced with multiple threats. Unfair
challenges sometimes flare up due to quick camera angle transitions where the
view wigs out, occasionally leading to a few frustrating zombie chomps. These
instances were very rare, however.
Sorry, this video is not available
Watch the producer of RE HD pick apart how the game has been remade
It's difficult to understate just how initially bizarre it
is to play a classic Resident Evil title with this updated control scheme. I've
played the 2002 remake and other early entries dozens of times since its
initial release, and was worried the more hyperactive character motions would
taint some of the deliberate combat and trepidatious exploration. The minor hit
to those elements of the formula is well worth the exchange. Having a character
that simply moves in the direction of your analog stick means that's one less
thing to think about, freeing players to enjoy this amazing horror game more
directly. 
These new controls, along with a new easy mode that boosts
ammo and health and makes enemies far weaker, present the perfect jumping-on
point for RE fans that've been hesitant to try out the classics that solidified
the genre's legacy. Purists can stick to the original controls and aspect
ratio, but I doubt I'll be going back after shedding the clunky mechanics. I'd
love to see Capcom remake the entire catalog of early titles in this style.

Note: This review pertains to the PlayStation 4 version of the game. It is also available on Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC.

9.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptA high-definition version of the phenomenal GameCube remake, complete with updated controls and widescreen mode
GraphicsRare, minor clipping visuals don't detract from the presentation. This is still a beautiful, atmospheric masterpiece
SoundListening for every zombies' footfall and awful moan is not only creepy as hell, it's necessary for survival
PlayabilityWith the new modern control scheme and new easy mode option, this is now the most accessible entry point into the classic RE formula
EntertainmentOne of the greatest horror games of all time becomes even better
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil HD Remaster

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

January 20, 2015

Purchase
More Info

