
                                          Crypt of the Necrodancer
                  				 Review


  Get Rhythm, Or You'll Get The Blues




Reviewed on PC

Also on
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation Vita, iOS, Android

Publisher
Brace Yourself Games

Developer
Brace Yourself Games

Release
April 23, 2015

Good music can make or break a game. A catchy stage theme
can burrow into your head longer than a radioactive earwig, while the most
abrasive offenders suffer music's worst fate: the mute button. Crypt of the
Necrodancer pulls off the improbable, delivering three awesome soundtracks and allowing
you to weave your own music library into the core of its punishing roguelike
gameplay.
Necrodancer demands players step in time with the beat,
timing movement and attacks with a tap of the arrow keys (which I preferred over
the controller) as they explore randomized dungeons. The brave and coordinated
can also hook up DDR dance pads to their PC, but I didn't have one handy. Tapping
off-beat not only erases your coin multiplier (important for buying items from
shops), but temporarily stops you from moving at all, opening you up to attack.
This restriction makes evading boogying skeletons and harp-headed minotaurs
feel clumsy at first - like dancing with a stranger at a wedding. But unlike
real life, I found myself gracefully falling in line with composer Danny
Baranowsky's (Super Meat Boy) infectious default soundtrack. Finding your flow
among the excellent electronic and metal arrangements feels amazing. Importing
your own tunes is also easy and the results can be surreal; stabbing bouncing
slimes to the Warcraft II soundtrack is more fun than it has any right to be.
Beyond the musical integration, the structure is similar to
other roguelikes. Exploring the procedurally generated mazes, hoping a treasure
chest doesn't bite you, and digging through walls is all part of the appeal. I
loved stumbling upon my favorite weapon (a powerful flintlock rifle) and
stocking up on useful items from the gleefully singing shopkeeper. However, I
was disappointed by the number of floors that kicked off with a huge middle finger,
like bosses that bum rush you just as you're finding the beat. A few permanent
upgrades help take the sting out of your repeated deaths, but they run dry far
too early, making progression feel imbalanced for a modern roguelike. Still,
purchasing interesting new items to populate your dungeon is an effective
carrot on a stick.

Unfortunately, the core formula of the game can be
troublesome when trying to understand or use items. Constantly moving to the
beat makes reading the item descriptions tough, like learning how a vampiric
whip might work, for example. Additionally, pausing to take stock and reflect
on your current inventory or situation is a hindrance since it's almost
impossible to exit the pause screen without missing a beat. A Rock Band-style
count off would've been great. The act of using the items themselves can be
clunky, too, thanks to the clever but inconsistent default arrow key combos. I
recommend customizing the item commands to help avoid frustrating mistakes.
In addition to unlocking a few permanent upgrades like
increased max health or coin multipliers, players can also earn alternative
characters to play. These variants challenge you to approach fun, completely
different new ways. For example, the Monk is damaged by gold, but gets free
stuff from shops. Dove is a pacifist who can daze enemies on her non-lethal
path to the exit. My favorite, Bard, allows you to ditch the whole rhythm
thing. As with a traditional roguelike, enemies move only when Bard does, turning
normally chaotic situations into a more strategic chess-like experience. Bard
is an awesome choice for players with musically deaf butterfingers, or anyone
who wants to practice without the constant pressure of keeping in time.
Crypt of the Necrodancer is an uneven experience thanks to
its built-in unpredictability, but the unique concept is charming and
captivating enough to justify your time. If you want to test your digits' dance
moves and love great game music, it's worth checking out. 
Get a better look at the game by watching us play on Test Chamber.

8

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptTop-down roguelike sensibilities collide with driving electronic tunes that force you to step in time to the music
GraphicsThe cartoonish, retro veneer fits well enough, but didn’t leave a lasting impression on me
SoundThe trio of soundtracks are excellent motivators for enduring this punishing labyrinth. Importing your own tunes ups the novelty factor significantly
PlayabilityThe learning curve is steep, especially if you’re not the toe-tapping type. The item-activating button combos make things a bit clunky
EntertainmentFinding your flow in the music feels incredible – until you’re crushed by some procedurally generated monstrosity for the umpteenth time
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Crypt of the Necrodancer

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation Vita, PC, iOS, Android

Release Date:

April 23, 2015 (PC), February 2, 2016 (PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita), June 30, 2016 (iOS), February 10, 2017 (Xbox One), February 1, 2018 (Switch), June 8, 2021 (Android)

Purchase
More Info

