
  GI Show: Fallout 4, King's Quest, Tacoma Interview






QuakeCon 2015 is behind us, and Andrew Reiner is back from Texas with the hot scoop on all things Fallout 4 and the bloody Doom reboot. We've also got some deep-dive conversations for you about new releases like King's Quest Chapter I and N++. Be sure to also stick around for a wonderful chat with Fullbright's Steve Gaynor, developer on Gone Home and the upcoming Tacoma (check out our cover story reveal).

In addition to all the game talk, we also dive into our adoration of the amazing speedrunners working their magic at Summer Games Done Quick this week. This year's SGDQ takes place in our very own St. Paul, Minnesota, so the Game Informer editors have been traveling to the event every spare moment they get to watch spectacular playthroughs of games like Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Resident Evil 4, Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, and much more. SGDQ is still happening now, so be sure to check them out on Twitch (and donate to Doctors Without Borders) after you're finished watching this week's GI Show. Even more, you can watch some of the talented Games Done Quick players team up with the Game Informer staff for fast playthroughs of Bloodborne, Gunstar Heroes, and the ridiculous Crystal's Pony Tale.

Watch episode 258 below or subscribe and listen to the audio on iTunes. You can also download the podcast from this article or stream it via SoundCloud. Also, be sure to send your emails to podcast@gameinformer.com for a chance to have them answered on the show and win a prize by becoming Email of the Week!

To jump to a particular discussion, check out the time-stamps below...

2:00 - King's Quest

14:20 - N++

20:40 - QuakeCon's Fallout 4 demo

34:30 - Playing Doom 4's multiplayer

40:20 - Summer Games Done Quick

52:30 - Listener E-mails

1:10:00 - Bryan Vore's going away celebration

1:19:30 - Steve Gaynor's Tacoma/Gone Home interview

             Your browser does not support the audio player. Download the file.

