
                                          Azure Striker Gunvolt
                  				 Review


  Inti Creates Delivers On The Mega Man Formula Again




Reviewed on 3DS

Also on
Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PC

Publisher
Inti Creates

Developer
Inti Creates

Release
August 29, 2014

Rating
Teen

Gunvolt isn't Mega Man, but developer Inti Creates definitely
channels love for the Capcom series into this new side-scroller. Azure Striker
Gunvolt harks back to the studio's portable Mega Man Zero and Mega Man Advent
games, but instead of pelting enemies with plasma he zaps them with
electricity. The satisfying action is amplified by an emphasis on keeping
combos going, a risk/reward checkpoint system, and acquiring weapons from
bosses.
At first glance, Gunvolt is all about blasting enemies and
avoiding traditional platforming hazards like spikes and bottomless pits. An
inventive electrocution gameplay mechanic adds a little bit more to the
formula. Gunvolt fires small nodes at his foes, then channels rechargeable
electricity into enemies to deal damage. Damage can be focused into a single
target by sticking it with multiple nodes, or spread across several targets to
divide and fry. Gunvolt can even float a little while zapping enemies, allowing
him extra mid-air mobility. This inventive combat is easy to understand and
even more satisfying to master.
After a brief intro level, you select which of the six main
stages you'd like to play. These courses, filled with missile-firing enemies
and various hazards, are moderately challenging without being remarkable. The
real treat lies in trying to kill as many enemies in a row to boost your
multiplier. Activating a checkpoint unlocks a nifty spot to respawn (you have
unlimited lives), but at the cost of your kill streak. Scoring big wins you a
chance to be resurrected mid-battle and increases your post-level score,
earning you materials used to craft items that raise defense or the effectiveness
of recovery items. Gunvolt emphasizes performing well rather than enduring sadistic,
old-school punishment. It's a fun gameplay hook, but I wasn't enticed to replay
levels in order to achieve higher grades.

While there are instances of funny dialogue, the overall story falls flat
Gunvolt can take a lot of damage by brute-forcing his way
through regular foes, but that strategy isn't as great during boss battles.
These multicolored foes harness powers like blasting out fireballs, summoning
insect hordes, and even cloning themselves. The one-on-one battles are intense
and challenging, requiring careful memorization of attack patterns and quick
reflexes. Gunvolt's limited special skills, like regaining health or stabbing
enemies with huge electro-swords, help immensely during big battles. The
majority of the bosses are reasonably difficult, but the encounters in the last
few levels pack a powerful kick in the groin. I appreciated the no-nonsense
final showdowns, but I found the sudden surge in deaths jarring. Some bosses
drop alternate primary weapons, some of which fire nodes that travel up walls
or pass through enemies. I liked tinkering with the new weapons, but didn't
find anything more reliable than the rapid-firing gun you begin with.
Save for his appearance in Super Smash Bros., Capcom has
been ignoring Mega Man for years, but fans have some great options while
waiting for news on the Blue Bomber. Azure Striker Gunvolt is a worthwhile
adventure, even if it's wrapped in a disposable sci-fi story about telekinetic
adepts. Azure Striker Gunvolt delivers some of the fun you remember from older
Mega Man titles while injecting a jolt of new gameplay.

8

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptA side-scrolling tribute to the portable Mega Man games, but with new electrification gameplay
GraphicsThe visuals are crisp and clear, but don't stray far outside traditional sci-fi anime style
SoundThe tunes are catchy. Expect to hear a lot of enemies cry out in Japanese upon their demise
PlayabilityLike the Mega Man Zero series, Gunvolt can dash, wall jump, and blast his enemies with precision
EntertainmentA fun adventure that places an emphasis on playing well rather than difficulty
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Azure Striker Gunvolt

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, 3DS, PC

Release Date:

August 29, 2014 (3DS), August 28, 2015 (PC), August 31, 2017 (Switch), April 23, 2020 (PlayStation 4), June 29, 2022 (Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One)

Purchase
More Info

