
  Know Your COGs: The Cast Of Gears Of War: Judgment






The next installment in the Gears of War series takes place 15 years 
before the start of the first game. This prequel stars some familiar - 
but younger - faces and also some new ones. Take a moment to 
refamiliarize yourself with Cole and Baird, and meet newcomers Garron 
Paduk, Sofia Hendrik, and Ezra Loomis.

Name: Damon BairdHeight: 6'0"Weight: 190 lbs
When we first meet Baird in Gears of War: Judgment, he's a lieutenant
 responsible for leading Kilo Squad against the new Locust threat. The 
fan favorite comes with all the snark and attitude you're familiar with,
 but he's not quite the jaded, cynical jerk we see by the end of Gears 
of War 3. Baird is filled with pride by the opportunity of leading 
fellow COGs, and he wants to be the best officer he can be.

Name: Augustus ColeHeight: 6'2"Weight: 230 lbs
All the way up until two months before the Locust breached the 
surface of Sera on E-Day, Cole was busy kicking ass on the Thrashball 
field. A prodigy at the sport, Cole endeared himself to a world of 
thrashball fans as "Cole Train." While he becomes fast friends with 
Baird, Cole misses his hard-earned sports fame and is second-guessing 
enlisting.

Name: Sofia HendrikHeight: 5'7"Weight: 135 lbs
Before the Locust invasion hit Halvo Bay, Sofia was training as an 
Onyx Guard cadet. She joined the fight against the Locust after being 
exposed to the horrors of war as a media correspondent towards the end 
of the decades-long Pendulum Wars. Having seen terrible things during 
battle, she sets out to ensure that war is properly waged, and that 
ethics must not be sacrificed for victory.

Name: Garron PadukHeight: 6'1"Weight: 215 lbs
Paduk comes from the other side of the Pendulum Wars. Fighting for 
the Union of Independent Republics, his home nation of Gorasnaya was 
demolished by the Locust early on in the war. Fortunately for Paduk, the
 COG navy helped him and a few others escape his crumbling home. 
Originally considered a POW by the COG, Paduk eventually convinced his 
captors that he'd be of more use killing Locust with Kilo Squad than 
rotting away in a cell.

Name: Ezra LoomisHeight: 6'4"Weight: 220 lbs
A COG colonel, Loomis believes wholeheartedly in the organization's 
goals and will do anything to adhere to its standards. Loomis has been 
entrenched in the military his entire life, and isn't concerned with the
 lives of civilians. The colonel is unable to adjust his tactical 
approach to war away from the human enemy of the Pendulum wars to the 
inhuman Locust menace. He's so concerned with doing things by the book 
that he even takes time during the war to makes Kilo Squad stand trial 
for their unorthodox strategies.

