
  November Cover Revealed – Resident Evil Revelations 2






The Resident Evil series hasn't blown fans away with recent
releases, but one spin-off starring Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield surprised
and delighted many. Resident Evil Revelations, which hit 3DS and last-gen
consoles in 2012, received far more acclaim than even Capcom's big-budget Resident Evil
6. The publisher is capitalizing on the excitement with a sequel for last- and
current-gen consoles. For our November issue cover story we met up with Capcom in
Tokyo, Japan to get our hands on an exclusive section of the game and time to
chat with the developers about the game and what to expect from the proper sequel to RE 6.
Our cover story takes a deep dive into Claire Redfield and
Moira Burton's harrowing escape from a blood-crusted prison facility. We got
special access to a section of the game where the leading ladies fight their
way through a cell block and face off with the biggest enemy seen in the game
so far. We also got our hands dirty getting used to the subtle, welcome changes
to tried-and-true RE 4-style combat, like a new dodge mechanic and the ability to
swap between characters. Capcom also opened up to us during extensive
interviews about the game's downloadable episodic format, story details, and whether the
next main, numbered sequel will focus on true survival horror or something
else. The remake of the 2002 GameCube Resident Evil is also looking great, which we saw in action and cover in this expansive RE story as well.
Click the image below to see the full cover, front and back.

Get a taste of the exclusive Resident Evil coverage we're putting online this month, including some tasty gameplay captured during our playthrough, by watching the coverage trailer below, or watch it on YouTube.
Sorry, this video is not available
This issue is dripping with Resident Evil, but there's a lot
of other great stuff waiting for you. Joe Juba presents an insightful and useful guide for how to build your
own gaming PC. Twitch's most popular streamer, Syndicate, shares his personal story of
success. The holiday rush of games is also upon us, so check out our reviews of
Alien: Isolation, Bayonetta 2, and more. We also have an extended interview with Feminist Frequency's Anita Sarkeesian, who chatted with us about her views on the portrayal of women in video games and the controversy that has followed her opinions.

Also exclusive to Game Informer is the tale of the former Irrational Games and Harmonix developers who have formed the Molasses Flood. These game makers have gone from triple-A development to starting their own studio, and they're coming out with a Kickstarter game called The Flame in the Flood. Even better, the Molasses Floods' Kickstarter is already live, the same time as the digital issue of the magazine. You can also read all about the story of the Molasses Flood in the issue or on gameinformer.com right here.
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week or two, but it's available now if you subscribe digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad,Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here
Resident Evil Revelations 2 is an exciting game, and there's
more to say and explore than can fit in a single 12-page cover story. We have a
full month of Revelations 2 coverage coming down the pipe. Look forward to
video interviews with the Resident Evil developers, extended gameplay video,
original features, and much more. Access the hub by clicking the banner below.

