
  Get To Know The Heroes Of Resistance 3






It takes bravery, strength, and resilience to combat a threat as deadly as the Chimera. The six-eyed invaders have reduced humanity to a mere 10 percent of its original size, but at least two of those remaining souls are courageous enough to keep fighting. Resistance 3's main protagonists are Joeseph Capelli and Dr. Fyodor Malikov, and Insomniac Games shared with us the characters' official profiles. So get familiar with mankind's only hope, and give them a read.

Joseph Capelli
Age: Born December 10, 1919. Resistance 3 takes place on August 9, 1957, thus he is 38 years old during the latest game.Height and weight: - Resistance 2: 6’5”, 230 lbs. – extreme muscular physique. - Resistance 3: 6’5”, 190 lbs. -- malnourishedPersonal mantra: “I want nothing more than to provide for my wife and son. Whatever it takes.“As a member of the Sentinels, an elite team of U.S. Army soldiers, Capelli battled the Chimera for several years. Four years ago, he was forced to kill the only other living Sentinel, Nathan Hale, after Hale succumbed to the Chimera virus.  Afterward, he became a pariah in the U.S. military, and was dishonorably discharged. Capelli roamed the countryside, surviving in the wild, until he met and married his wife, Susan. Now he is a husband and a father in the town of Haven, Oklahoma. Like most other humans, he survives by hiding from the Chimera.Fyodor MalikovAge: Born March, 1896.  Resistance 3 takes place on August 9, 1957, thus he is 61 years old at the start of the new game.  Height and weight: 5’9”, 155 lbs. -- frailPersonal mantra: “I believe every question has an answer-- my life is dedicated to finding a way to defeat the Chimera.” Dr. Malikov is an intense man with very little patience. He escaped from Russia in 1941, then started working for the top secret U.S. military division S.R.P.A. (Special Research Projects Administration). Dr. Malikov is the world’s expert on the Chimera virus, but he has gained this knowledge at the expense of many human lives. He has a tireless work ethic and an unyielding thirst for knowledge. For the past four years, Malikov has witnessed the brutal defeat of the U.S. military machine. His last hope is to find Joseph Capelli, and convince the former Sentinel to join him on a journey that could decide the fate of humanity.

      Products In This Article

Resistance 3

Platform:

PlayStation 3

Release Date:

September 1, 2011

Purchase
More Info

