
                                          Dark Souls II: Scholar of the First Sin
                  				 Review


  School Is Back In Session




Reviewed on PlayStation 4

Also on
Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Publisher
Bandai Namco

Developer
From Software

Release
April 7, 2015

Rating
Teen

From Software's dark fantasy action/RPGs are notoriously
impenetrable thanks to their steep learning curves and harsh difficulty. Last
year, Dark Souls II's comparatively softer introductory hours allowed a new
sect of fans to learn what makes the series so punishing and rewarding (read our glowing review). The
Scholar of the First Sin edition retains the spirit of Dark Souls II, while
updating the visuals to current hardware standards, rearranging enemies and
items, and packing in the previously released DLC content.
At a glance, the dreary world of Drangleic seems the same as
it did in the original, but little touches offer surprises of varying degrees
to returning players. For example, a once-quiet river now has a deadly giant
lumbering through it. A spire that once housed a single knight is now occupied
by a dragon (a beast found much later in the original iteration). One encounter
involves a big pack of undead soldiers filing out of a doorway like a deadly
clown car - a lethal surprise for both newcomers and foolhardy veterans.
One of Scholar's most fiendish surprises is relocating a
very important ring. The Ring of Binding, which softens the HP penalty for
being undead, is a must-get unless you're among the most hardcore Souls players.
The trek to the ring's original location is supremely punishing, and then From
Software smacks players in the face by relocating the item. The rearranged
enemies and items offer a neat twist, but ultimately feel more like a Master
Quest-style bonus mode rather than a marquee feature. Dark Souls II's original
enemy layout and pacing makes it the better way to play for first-timers,
though unfortunately that's not an option in Scholar of the First Sin.

You can now be invaded and aided by one more player of either alignment, bringing it up to six total players
Players who missed out on Dark Souls II's terrific DLC
offerings are in luck, because all three Lost Crown packs are incorporated
here. I love the enigmatic environmental puzzles, battle with a huge dragon,
and other cool elements included with this post-release content. Having these
add-ons available from the outset is great - even if you have to earn that
access by fighting your way to them.
Dark Souls II looked great on last-gen hardware, but the
occasional muddy texture or slogging framerate slightly detracted from the
experience. The current-gen -iterations of the game give the entire visual side
a re-invigorating shot in the arm. The silky frame-rate smooths out the process
of using the camera to pan around the environment or track enemies.
Scholar of the First Sin is best suited for two types of
player: Complete Souls newcomers that insist on playing with the latest
hardware, and returning warriors who soaked up every bit of new game-plus
content loaded into the original. While I don't think the encounters are quite
up to the level of the original, it's hard to argue with more of one of 2014's
best games. 
Editor's note: This
review is based on the PlayStation 4 version of the game.

9

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptRerelease Dark Souls II with updated visuals, all previously released DLC, and a remixed arrangement of enemies and items
GraphicsThe textures and character models are crisper, and the framereate is smoother than on last-gen consoles
SoundLots of ambient noises, pained grunts, and snarling enemies. The sparsely used score helps accentuate intense moments
PlayabilityThe most immediately accessible of the Souls series, but the rigid, deliberate combat still requires a lot of patience from newcomers
EntertainmentThe new enemy arrangements don’t trump the original Dark Souls II, but it’s still a great jumping-on point
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

Dark Souls II: Scholar of the First Sin

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

April 7, 2015

Purchase
More Info

