
                                          Sonic Generations
                  				 Review


  A Suffering Hedgehog’s Life Flashes Before His Eyes




Reviewed on Xbox 360

Also on
PlayStation 3, 3DS

Publisher
Sega

Developer
Sonic Team

Release
November 1, 2011

Rating
Everyone

Sonic Generations aims to bridge the gap between old and new fans by 
revisiting stages throughout the series with both 2D and 3D gameplay. 
The result is a timeline that starts out strong and slowly deteriorates,
 serving as an apt history lesson for the struggling series.
The 
quest begins with side-scrolling tributes to memorable Genesis-era 
stages as classic Sonic. These levels rekindled the magic of being a 
wide-eyed kid seeing Sonic’s world for the first time. Platforming is 
slightly tighter than in Sonic 4, which makes landing precise jumps 
easier. Tearing through loop de loops in Green Hill and bouncing across 
clouds in Sky Sanctuary are among my favorite Sonic moments, and they 
translate perfectly. Unfortunately, the good times fade when Sonic 
begins cruising through 2D versions of levels from post-Dreamcast Sonic 
games. Traversing the burning ruins of Crisis City from the awful 2006 
Sonic the Hedgehog reboot is an exercise in frustration packed with 
unfair drop-offs and annoying gales.
Playing as modern 3D Sonic 
presents the same steady drop in fun. Speeding across double helix pipes
 and dodging chemical geysers in Chemical Plant m﻿akes for some of the 
best 3D Sonic Adventure-style action the series has seen, but things go 
south when you break into the last-gen titles. Sonic Unleashed and Sonic
 Heroes didn’t thrill me, and revisiting reworked versions only serves 
to remind me of how uninspired they are. Legacy issues, like wonky 
platforming and poorly communicated pitfalls, plague these later levels.
The
 last half of the game serves only to remind you of how far the series 
has fallen from its original form. I felt smothered by Sonic Team’s 
insistence on shoehorning recent Sonic games, no matter how awful, into 
the 20-year timeline. Why would Sega pass up full level tributes to 
Sonic 3 or Sonic CD in favor of a remixed version of a stage from Sonic 
Colors, which released only a year ago?
At the end of the game, 
old and new Sonic part ways. As they do, modern Sonic says to his retro 
doppelganger, “Hey Sonic, enjoy your future, it’s going to be great!” If
 he only knew.

6.75

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptA whimsical trip down memory lane that ends in the gutter
GraphicsBright colors and sprawling landscapes make for one of the best-looking Sonic games
SoundThe remixes of old tunes and ability to select your own soundtrack make this an aural joy
PlayabilityThe 2D platforming is a slight step up from Sonic Colors’ floatiness, but running in a straight line while in 3D is difficult. Things fall apart when you have to complete a level quickly
EntertainmentThe first half of the game is a nostalgic treat, while the latter portions are a sobering reminder of Sonic’s fall from glory
ReplayModerately Low

      Products In This Article

Sonic Generations

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, 3DS

Release Date:

November 1, 2011

Purchase
More Info

