
                                          Titan Souls
                  				 Review


  Standing Tall On The Shoulders Of Colossi




Reviewed on PlayStation Vita

Also on
PlayStation 4, PC

Publisher
Devolver Digital

Developer
Acid Nerve

Release
April 14, 2015

Rating
Teen

Boss battles provide some of the most potent memories we
take away from our favorite games. I'll never forget the first time I batted
Agahnim's magic blasts back at him in The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past,
or took down the first lumbering stone giant in Shadow of the Colossus.
Developer Acid Nerve recognizes the appeal of a good boss fight, and they've
combined the essence of the incredible games I mentioned into a unique package
that trims the fat and focuses on big confrontations. More than just a tribute
to either game, the studio infuses the core concept of hunting down giant
ancient beasts from Shadow of the Colossus with enticing elements like extreme
lethality, top-down Zelda-inspired battles, and a captivating sense of mystery.
Titan Souls sets players off running with a deliciously
sparse tutorial. You can run, roll dodge, and shoot an arrow that can also be
magically recalled (think of Yondu from Guardians
of the Galaxy). Aiming the arrow in the top-down perspective is as easy as
holding the fire button and using an analog stick to aim in the right
direction. No aiming aid extends beyond the top of your arrowhead, so learning
to dial in clutch shots takes time and patience.
Speaking of patience, you're going to need lots of it if you
want to enjoy taking on Titan Souls' cast of tough boss battles. Players track
down and confront a varied collection of the titular titans (I conquered 16
during my playthrough), and they're going to crush you - over and over. The
mysterious, titan-slaying protagonist dies in one hit, but titans also can only
withstand one arrow to their vulnerable spot (usually pink). The result is a
tense, challenging, and ultimately rewarding collection of one-on-ones. I died
179 times during my first playthrough, but the only penalty after each death is
trekking back to the boss. Downtime between attempts is mercifully short, while
still allowing you time to reflect on how you blew it. Still, by my 20th death
at the hands of a particularly nasty boss, I was wishing it took less time to
get back into the fray.

Titan Souls has some of the best boss variety I've seen,
which is good when the action is composed of 100-percent big bad guys; no other
enemies get in your way between fights. One titan is a speedy, snowball-chucking
yeti with a penchant for rolling and miserably vulnerable hind quarters. The fiery
blob that alternates between spewing and inhaling lava is one of my favorites,
and requires players to make clever use of their unique arrow. The battle that
gave me the biggest trouble involves turning a titan's own attack against it,
opening up a narrow opportunity to deliver a killing blow. While this battle
was exciting and a joy to eventually overcome, it highlights one of my main
complaints with Titan Souls. Too many times I could've sworn I saw my arrow
cleanly connect with the target, only to pass straight through or bounce off
impotently. This might not matter in a game with more forgiving combat (or health
bars), but they stick out like throbbing pink thumbs in the context of Titan
Souls' ultra-lethal combat. 
Taking on all the titans isn't as simple as a boss rush at
the end of a Mega Man game. Traveling through the large, mysterious world
offers much-needed downtime between repeated, sometimes-stressful throwdowns. Acid
Nerve again wears its love of Shadow Colossus on its rune-etched sleeve, as the
curious wandering between bosses evokes memories of Team Ico's classic. The
serene, contemplative music meshes beautifully with swaying pixelated trees,
calm ponds, and other ambient elements. I sank into the experience thanks to
these stretches of quiet solitude; the downtime always succeeded in making the
next battle even more intense. A few basic environmental puzzles, like lighting
torches and a Lost Woods-style maze, offer a little variety in the exploration,
but discovering your next foe is mostly about poking around everywhere.
The simple, distilled formula is a refreshing change of pace
from the increasingly complex systems many modern games present to players. The
thematic ground of an enigmatic little warrior battling ambiguously aligned
beasts is worn territory, but Acid Nerve injects enough of its own style and
rewarding moments to justify this tribute. The extra challenges you unlock
after beating the game, like a harder difficulty and one-life mode, offer nice
replayability to the five-hour adventure. If you're looking for a stiff
challenge and a captivating atmosphere to lose yourself in, look no further. 
This review is based off the PC version, but it's also available on PS4 and Vita. See Titan Souls in action in this episode of Test Chamber.

8.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptTop-down, Zelda-style battles against a large gallery of tough bosses in the vein of Shadow of the Colossus
GraphicsThe downloadable market is filled with visuals inspired by the 8-bit era, but the inspired enemy designs and mysterious environments set this one apart
SoundThe peaceful music that plays while exploring the world is a clever contrast to the pulse-pounding boss tunes
PlayabilitySome of the hit windows on bosses are narrower than the design appears to suggest, which can be frustrating. Otherwise, the controls are simple and mostly fair
EntertainmentYou need an abundance of patience and a tinge of masochistic tendencies to enjoy it, but Titan Souls is a refreshing return to the brutal boss battles of yesteryear
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Titan Souls

Platform:

PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, PC

Release Date:

April 14, 2015

Purchase
More Info

