
                                          BulletStorm
                  				 Review


  The FPS Genre Gets A Billion Shots In The Arm




Reviewed on PC

Also on
PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Publisher
Electronic Arts

Developer
Electronic Arts

Release
February 22, 2011

Rating
Mature

Do you remember the first time you shot an explosive barrel? That 
sharp blast not only heralded gamers’ infatuation with reducing enemies 
to pulpy puddles, it also laid the foundation for interactive 
environments in shooters. Clever gunmen have trained their sights on red
 barrels and other hazards for decades, learning the language of 
creative carnage. All you know about killing with style using your 
surroundings has been a prelude to the bloody playground of Bulletstorm.
Going
 into a game called Bulletstorm I expected a paper-thin story as an 
excuse for nonstop murder. Instead, I was greeted with a humorous, 
potty-mouthed opening that fleshes out the dramatic crash-landing of 
ornery fugitive Grayson Hunt. His quest for revenge on corrupt military 
leader Sarrano is a goofy sci-fi romp that doesn’t deserve to have its 
cutscenes skipped.
Bulletstorm offers a degree of character 
control I haven’t experienced in an FPS since Mirror’s Edge. Gray’s 
kick, slide, and leash allow him to move through and interact with the 
environment with fluidity. In other games, it would be unthinkable to 
pull a foe from across the map, strap him with explosives, kick him back
 into his buddies, and slide away while detonating the bloody mess. 
Amazing moments like this are easy to pull off in Bulletstorm. The 
slow-mo effect applied to enemies after being kicked or leashed offers 
the perfect window of opportunity to boot them towards electric wires or
 cacti, and the game has a predictive way of guiding the poor soul where
 you wish. There were only a few instances where I accidentally impaled 
some sad sack with rebar instead of feeding them to a carnivorous plant.
 Other than that, racking up points with creative skill shots is a 
reliably cathartic experience.
Skillshots are necessary to gain 
points to spend on weapon upgrades and ammo, but they’re riotous fun in 
their own right. Working similarly to trophies and achievements, players
 earn hundreds of points by dispatching foes according to dozens of 
general and weapon-specific criteria. For example, the “French 
Revolution” skillshot is pulled off by decapitating multiple foes with a
 chain flail, and “Fan-tastick” is earned by launching a foe into the 
air and impaling him into the ceiling with a rotating spike, turning him
 into a human fan. The weapons themselves are some of the most creative 
and entertaining I’ve seen outside of an Insomniac title, including a 
quadruple-barreled shotgun that evaporates enemies like the playground 
scene from Terminator 2. Combine these weapon challenges with the general thrill of combat and you’ll be hard-pressed to find a mundane encounter.
When
 you’re not mowing through legions of foes, you’re dropped into 
larger-than life moments, like one that has Gray fleeing a tremendous 
runaway cog on a tram while you blast gas tanks to knock the wheel off 
course. In another scenario Gray giddily guides a remote-controlled 
Mecha Godzilla lookalike through a miniature city, blasting apart 
buildings and enemies.
In addition to the single-player campaign, 
Bulletstorm offers Echoes and Anarchy modes. Echoes takes sections from 
single-player maps and lets friends compete with each other for the 
highest score. Knocking friends down the ladder is a nice distraction, 
but only score fiends will want to play this after beating the main 
game. Anarchy is a cooperative horde mode in which four players work 
together to earn skill points to progress through waves. Playing catch 
with foes using the leash and teaming up to kick a jerk into a gigantic 
dino’s maw is a good time, but the higher level waves are impossible 
without constant communication. Hooking up four consoles in a room among
 good friends is your best bet, but even then the handful of maps start 
to feel repetitive after your tenth time attempting to get past wave 15.
Bulletstorm
 is an exceptional shooter brimming with personality and originality, 
but the concept is spread too thin in the later levels. New homicidal 
toys are constantly introduced in the first three-quarters of the game, 
which makes the final few hours a little stale. Mix in a ho-hum ending 
and the stellar experience goes out on a bit of a low note.
Small 
gripes aside, there’s no denying Bulletstorm’s blissful action. Epic 
Games/People Can Fly’s sadistic opus arrives at a time when most 
shooters do little more than let you blast dudes in the head while 
things explode. Bulletstorm has those things, but also lets you shoot a 
man in the testicles and kick slide his head off.

9.25

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptBulletstorm delivers a boot-full of variety and originality to the stagnating FPS genre
GraphicsMasterful animations, stunning backdrops, and a vibrant color palette assault the senses
SoundYour ears will be treated to snappy dialogue, top-notch voiceovers, and blood-pumping metal riffs
PlayabilityThe game controls like a dream, allowing you to easily unleash nightmares upon your foes
EntertainmentPerfect for fans of penis jokes, swearing, gore, and tight gameplay
ReplayHigh

      Products In This Article

BulletStorm

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC

Release Date:

February 22, 2011

Purchase
More Info

