Resident Evil: The Mercenaries - 3DS


  Things To Know About Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D




A little under a week is left until fans will be returning to the addictive Mercenaries mode in Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D for 3DS. We’ve posted hands-on impressions in the past, but want to take this opportunity to clue you in on the important stuff that makes this game stand out from past Mercenaries incarnations.
If you’ve never played Mercenaries mode before, here’s the situation.
The Basics:

Select a character with a preset weapon/item loadout that suits your tastes
Select a level. These are modified sections from Resident Evil 4/5
Begin the round with set time limit. Kill enemies and discover bonuses to extend time.
Kill enemies in succession to build your combo and gain more points.
Take down deadly boss enemies to score huge points
Play co-op with a friend to more easily keep combos alive and heal one another
Play for points. Scoring big unlocks goodies like costumes and characters.

What’s New In The Mercenaries 3D:
Perks: In addition to unlocking costumes and characters, you’ll also unlock Call of Duty-esque perks. You can equip three of these at once. Some examples include handgun proficiency, increased health recover, and enhanced melee damage when in critical condition. Perks become more powerful the more you use them, and can be shared between characters.
Co-Op: Similar to Resident Evil 5, players can hook up via the 3DS’ wireless or a wi-fi internet connection. This time around the two mercenaries can perform cooperative melee strikes on enemies for big damage and extra points. They’re tough to pull off, but worth the effort.
3D: Players can gun down Majinis in three dimensions on the 3DS. The Mercenaries 3D doesn’t have anything gimmicky flying at the screen to exaggerate the effect, it’s just straight-forward 3D. Our experience with the game has resulted in less eye strain than other 3DS games.
First-Person Shooting: You still move through the environments in third-person, but now you have the option to aim in first-person. This allows for greater accuracy and easier aiming on the 3DS’ smaller screen. Don’t worry, you can still aim in third person if you want. After players take aim they can also move around, a rarity in the Resident Evil series.
A Colorful Crew: Confirmed characters include Jill Valentine, Barry Burton, Chris Redfield, Rebecca Chambers, Hunk, Clair Redfield, Jack Krauser, and Albert Wesker.
Mission-Based Tutorial Levels: The Mercenaries 3D includes new, objective-based mission types. These range from simple tutorial levels to wave-based combat.
A Mix Of Resident Evil 4 & 5: Levels and enemies are pulled from RE 4 and RE 5 to deliver a greatest hits-style Mercenaries experience. You can look forward to gunning down robed, scythe-wielding Illuminati in an African village. 
Resident Evil: Revelations Demo: When you snag The Mercenaries 3D you’ll also get a demo of Capcom’s other upcoming 3DS game. This portion of the game has Jill Valentine creeping through a dark, gloomy ship. Turning down the lights and putting on some headphones makes this taste of the atmospheric game even more impactful.
Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D hits the 3DS on June 28.

