
                                          Resident Evil 4 HD
                  				 Review


  This Series’ Savior Gets The Makeover It Deserves




Reviewed on Xbox 360

Also on
PlayStation 3

Publisher
Capcom

Developer
Capcom

Release
September 20, 2011

Rating
Mature

At this point Resident Evil 4 shouldn’t need an introduction. The 
2005 title’s perfect pacing and spot-on gunplay not only reinvigorated 
the struggling survival horror series, it set a new standard for 
third-person shooters. Leon S. Kennedy’s quest to rescue the President’s
 daughter from a cult of infected freaks has cemented itself on 
countless top 20 lists. Whether you overlooked this gem or are itching 
to stomp out the Las Plagas once again, Resident Evil 4 in HD is a 
beautiful thing.
Not much has changed gameplay-wise between 
Resident Evil 4 and 5, so core fans won’t have much trouble returning to
 the creepy Spanish village. Leon’s tank-like movements aren’t the most 
intuitive, but pegging foes in the legs and taking potshots at their 
vulnerable heads is still a rewarding process. The variety of firearms 
isn’t overwhelming, but each has unique characteristics and are still 
fun to upgrade. I was shocked by how much I still enjoy Resident Evil 
4’s puzzle-like inventory system. You get to know your gear pretty well 
when you have to shove it all in a single attaché case.
The thrill
 of Resident Evil 4’s gonzo moments lives on in full force thanks to 
updated visuals. Conquering a mutated sea creature on a tiny wooden boat
 still gets the blood pumping, especially without the fuzzy haze of 
last-gen graphics. It’s still terrifying to flee from frenzied mobs only
 to be greeted head-on (or should I say head-off?) by a 
chainsaw-wielding maniac. Though the textures and character models are 
much sharper than previous versions, some may find the lack of detail 
and muted colors dull.
The updated visuals aren’t mind-blowing, 
but they present the best way to return to this already stellar game. If
 you somehow missed out on Resident Evil 4 when it turned heads on the 
GameCube, this is the perfect time to give it a download and see what 
all the fuss is about.

9.5

About Game Informer's review system

ConceptMake one of the most beloved horror games of all time look beautiful again
GraphicsA fresh coat of paint makes returning to this classic even more rewarding
SoundEnemies shout Spanish taunts as they approach from behind, and bullets lodge in your foes with sickening splats. This is still some of the best sound design ever
PlayabilityThe tank-like controls hold back Resident Evil 4 from playing as fluidly as every other shooter, but that’s half the fun for thrill-seeking gamers
EntertainmentThis game combines the action of a roller coaster ride with the scares of a haunted house
ReplayModerately High

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil 4 HD

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

September 20, 2011

Purchase
More Info

