
  Top 10 Action Games Of The Generation






The last console generation was packed with some of the
greatest action games of all time. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 4's life cycles
were longer than any consoles before them, allowing developers to become more familiar
with the powerful tech and deliver better and better games. Imaginative new IPs
like Uncharted and Assassin's Creed started as demonstrations of raw potential
and matured into blockbuster franchises. Long-running series like Tomb Raider
received their best entries in years.
The action genre is, by definition, a fairly broad category.
Games that don't obviously fit into more defined genres like shooters, sports,
or RPGs tend to fall under the "action" umbrella. For example, Nathan Drake
shoots tons of evil mercenaries in Uncharted, but labeling it a shooter does a
disservice to the fun environmental exploration and puzzle-solving. With that
in mind, by Game Informer's qualification of action games are generally
third-person affairs with significantly more to them than a combat hook. As one
final note, keep in mind that we limited our list to one entry per series. (Click here to explore the rest of our articles exploring last generation)
Without further ado, these are the 10 best action games of
the generation.
10. Tomb Raider
Going into last generation, few would've likely guessed that
Lara Croft would star in a new game worthy of this list. The indomitable explorer managed
to survive a series of rough entries before Crystal Dynamics righted her path
on the PS3 and 360 - Didn't Crystal do the last 3 or 4 games??. Visually
stunning, the Tomb Raider reboot did an incredible job of transporting players
to the mysterious, deadly island of Yamatai. Lara's ordeal in the island's
wilderness and crumbing ruins is filled with intense moments like tumbling down
a waterfall and escaping a collapsing ship. The visceral, bone-breaking nature
of these close calls would be enough to make Nathan Drake feel like he has it
easy.
9. Dead Space
Horror games dried up on consoles last generation, but
Visceral's Dead Space series stood against changing trends. Isaac Clarke's
fateful mission on the USG Ishimura combined
the core third-person gunplay of Resident Evil 4 with the innovative ability to
move while shooting (something Capcom wouldn't implement until RE 6). The
winning combination gave players more control, but also inspired Visceral to
make deadlier enemies. The twisted, mutated Necromorphs shake up the tired
headshot-centric firefight formula by forcing players to aim for the limbs - an
engaging twist that stands the test of time. Dead Space's HUD is also entirely
in-universe, allowing players to immerse themselves in the nerve-fraying sci-fi
nightmare. Dead Space kicked the series off on the right foot and set a high
benchmark for all horror games to follow.
8. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
This PS3 exclusive is the dramatic conclusion to the iconic
Solid Snake's convoluted yet entertaining story (until Kojima decides
otherwise). Kojima Productions shook off the series' history of tricky cameras
and quirky control schemes in exchange for a stealth game that controls like a competent
third-person shooter. Snake's optic camouflage further streamlines the action,
allowing the daring clone to blend with his environments instead of changing
his clothes on the battlefield. These gameplay changes, along with its goofy
multiple story climaxes, makes it one of the high points for the generation.
7. Batman: Arkham Asylum
Rocksteady put an end to Batman's long line of awful video
games last generation in one fell swoop. The Dark Knight's perilous adventure
into the deepest recesses of the lunatic-filled Arkham Asylum introduced us to
a terrific story with a who's who of fun enemy cameos and groundbreaking
combat. Batman's ability to fluidly battle mobs of enemies and the clever
counter-attack cues made every battle a blast rather than a chore. The larger
open-world sequels did a great job of expanding Gotham City, but we love Arkham
Asylum's sense of Metroid-like progression that comes with unlocking new
sections of the more compact madhouse. Arkham Asylum reinvented the Caped
Crusader and put Rocksteady on the map with undeniable style.
6. Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood
Ubisoft kicked off its wildly successful Assassin's Creed
series last generation and delivered a staggering six core entries on last-gen
hardware. Of these alternate history/sci-fi tales, Ezio's second chapter narrowly
edged out AC II as the standout title. The saucy hooded Italian takes to Rome,
scaling ancient ruins with a more fluid parkour system. The combat system also
underwent enhancements, making it easier to string together flashy kills.
Making a bad-ass character even cooler, Ezio could even sit back and call in
his fellow assassin brothers to spring from haystacks and other hiding spots to
take out targets. Arguments can be made for the strengths and weaknesses of
each Assassin's Creed game, but Brotherhood has the fewest glaring dents in its
armor.
Keep reading to see where stellar action games from Naughty Dog and Rockstar fall on our list...

5: Uncharted 2: Among Thieves
The very opening sequence of Uncharted 2 lets you know this
sequel blows the original out of the water. Drake clutches a bloody hand
against a gunshot on his stomach as he comes to, realizing he's in a busted
train car teetering over a fatal precipice. This in media res moment sets the stage for the terrible things to come
for the cavalier treasure hunter. Uncharted 2 ratchets up the white-knuckle
action of the original with new set pieces like escaping a building that
collapses in real time and fleeing from a mysterious creature in a frozen cave.
The improved controls, unforgettable moments, and Drake and Elena's charming
banter make this sequel a high point for the series.
4. God of War III
Kratos is no stranger to action. The God of War himself probably
can't brush his teeth in the morning without decapitating a minotaur or two.
This PS3 sequel has no shortage of Chaos Blade-flailing and gratuitous
evisceration. The silky smooth combat feels great on the PS3, with extra help
coming from Sony's powerful hardware. This bloody romp hit all the series' key
pillars, with awesome battles, platforming sequences, and environmental
puzzles. God of War III even outdid the grand scale of its impressive PS2
predecessors by placing Kratos on the back of a tremendous living Titan right
out of the gate. Kratos' final chapter in his revenge against the nefarious
Zeus remains one of the best in the genre.
3. Grand Theft Auto V
Choosing between GTA IV and V for our list was no easy task.
The former creates a convincingly diverse and detailed version of New York,
while the latter offers a vast approximation of the greater Los Angeles area
with tons to do and explore. GTA V tips the scale with three unique
protagonists that can be swapped between on the fly, more quirky missions than
you can shake a bazooka at, and the ambitious GTA Online. The stories of
Michael, Franklin, and Trevor weren't quite as nuanced and relatable as Nico
Bellic's, but the absurdity of their dramatic lives kept us hooked. We've all
dumped hours of our lives into Los Santos and don't regret a single second.
2. Red Dead Redemption
Rockstar delivered a plethora of impressive games last
generation, including the aforementioned GTA games, L.A. Noire, and Max Payne
3, but the Wild West saga of John Marston is the real sheriff in town.
Rockstar's beautiful, sprawling frontier was a revelation in open-world
exploration. Marston's tale of revenge is expertly delivered, but some of the
real joy comes from simple activities like hunting game and helping out
imperiled strangers. Red Dead also delivers one of the most memorable moments
of last generation, with a moving acoustic song that kicks in as the cowboy
anti-hero crosses into the Mexican wilderness. Rockstar even manages to make
galloping across the plains on a horse a joy, unlike most uncoordinated video
game steeds. The whole package, down to its unforgettable conclusion, is a
masterwork of what video games can accomplish in terms of storytelling and open
worlds.
1. The Last of Us
Much has been said about Game Informer's best PS3 game of
last generation, Naughty Dog's The Last of Us. The glowing conversation usually
revolves around the subtle, powerful tale of a troubled man protecting a young
girl in a post-apocalyptic hell, but The Last of Us boasts a combat system
that's both deeply rewarding and challenging. Scavenging for constituent parts
to craft Molotov cocktails and shivs feels true to Joel and Ellie's dire
situation, but also offers a profound sense of hope when your back's against
the wall. Naughty Dog also managed to make sneaking through Clicker-infested
ruins and silently taking out deadly marauders an enjoyable stealth experience
- a rare feat. These core gameplay elements combine with the moving story and
gorgeous overgrown cityscapes to create an experience that's both beautiful and
melancholy. The Last of Us's grim story closed out last generation by sparking
hope in the bright future of video games.

Those were our top action game picks – what are yours? Sound off in the comments below, and make sure to check out our Top 10 shooter, racing, and role-playing lists.

