
  Blizzard Is Bringing Diablo III To Switch This Fall






            In what is clearly the best-kept secret of all time, Blizzard has revealed that Diablo III, the 2012 loot-and-dungeon action game first released on PC, is coming to Nintendo Switch later this year. It marks the first time Blizzard has worked with Nintendo since the Nintendo 64 version of Starcraft almost 18 years ago.

The Nintendo Switch version of Diablo III contains all the content made for the game so far, like the Reaper of Souls and Rise of the Necromancer expansions, on one cart. The main game and the expansions are available from the moment you launch the title, giving you access to the entire suite of Diablo III content immediately.

There's also some Nintendo-specific content in the game for Switch fans hoping to check out the game for the first time or returning players looking for a hint of Nintendo-themed trim around the edges. You can learn more about that content here.

The multiplayer of Diablo III is brought to Switch in full force, with both local and online variations. Players can play with two players on one Switch, four players over wireless LAN using multiple Switches, up to four players in online play, or a combination of local and online. Since it launches after Nintendo's proposed September date for paid online, Diablo III will be using that and supporting its cloud saves, as well.

The game supports voice chat, but it will be handled through the Nintendo Switch app, not through the system itself.

Even if you didn't find out about Diablo III on Switch yesterday, it might still be pretty predictable considering Blizzard seemingly teased and then denied the Switch port earlier this year. At the time, we speculated that it was either an extremely deliberate Diablo III tease or the absurd possibility it was an advertisement for a Diablo nightlight. We asked Blizzard about the tease, who told us it was actually an advertisement for a very real Diablo nightlight and was never meant to hint at the Switch version in development at the time. Whoops.

As mentioned, this is the first time Blizzard has worked with Nintendo for nearly two decades. When we asked Blizzard senior producer Pete Stilwell about their renewed relationship, he told us "Nintendo cares deeply about games, their love for video games is unmatched. Working with them has been great."

While you wait for more information on Diablo III, only most of which has already been leaked, check out the game's Switch-specific content and read about which Blizzard character the developers would want in Super Smash Bros.

      Products In This Article

Diablo III: Reaper Of Souls - Ultimate Evil Edition

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

August 19, 2014

Purchase
More Info

