Shovel Knight


  Take On The World With The Heart Of The Cards




As part of the King Knight DLC for Shovel Knight, Yacht Club Games announced the King of Cards expansion, a brand new campaign centered around becoming card royalty.
For the expansion, Yacht Club Games has created an entirely new card game that functions similarly to Final Fantasy VIII's Triple Triad card game called Jouster. Cards representing Shovel Knight's many monsters make up your hand with arrows pointing in assigned directions on them. The cards are laid down in lit up center squares with the objective being to slide a card onto a gem on the board. Cards can be shoved by other cards in your hand by lining up arrows from the shover with sides with no arrows on the shovee, eventually getting to the gem.
King Knight is introduced to the card game, then walks forward into a Jouster hall with multiple opponents ready to play. He has to defeat every enemy in the area before he can take on the Black Knight below in his quest to become King.
The default deck probably won't get you very far, but Shovel Knight's merchant resides in a treasure chest in the basement below, and he's selling random cards for King Knight to buy. Since he's King Knight and part of the Order of No Quarter, he's more than happy to cheat, and consumable cheats can also be purchased from the merchant to just do things like destroy the entire enemy hand.
Yacht Club Games explained to us that King of Cards basically doubles the content of the King Knight DLC expansion, offering an entire campaign of characters, stages, and bosses similar in content to the main game and other two DLC campaigns, in addition to the platforming campaign already announced.
Both parts of the King Knight expansion are scheduled to be released in the first half of 2018.

      Products In This Article

Shovel Knight

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, Wii U, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, 3DS, PC, Mac, Linux

Release Date:

June 26, 2014

Purchase
More Info

