
                                          Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines 2
                  


  Thinblood Possibilities




Platform
PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Publisher
Paradox Interactive

Developer
The Chinese Room

Release
2024

It still feels moderately strange that a Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines 2 is happening at all, so each new bit of information comes as a bit of a surprise. In this case, Paradox Interactive has information about the thinblood disciplines your fledgling vampire chooses from at the start of the game.

The thinbloods are freshly turned and weaker vampires that are having a harder time in the new world of darkness than full bloods are. However, because Seattle has only recently come under Camarilla control, thinbloods can rise to the top with a little opportunity and luck. Check out the animated cinematic, which contains more rat eating than you might be comfortable with, introducing the thinbloods below.

Sorry, this video is not available

The three thinblood disciplines players pick from at the beginning are Chiropteran, Mentalism, and Nebulation. The much more detailed information comes from Paradox right here:

Chiropteran - Strong affinity for bats, allowing vampires to move through the air and summon swarms.

Glide — Greatly lower the weight of the player character's skeleton and muscle mass and create an updraft to briefly float in the air; gliding into an NPC will knock them down. This can be upgraded to allow the player to swoop down on NPCs while gliding above them.
Bat Swarm — Summon a small swarm of bats to attack target NPC, temporarily disabling them and dealing low damage. Bat Swarm can be upgraded with a Pheromone discipline that increases its duration, as well as with a Maelstrom of leathery wings that surrounds the player and damages any enemies that come too close.
Mentalism - Use telekinesis to manipulate objects and even allows the vampire to pull weapons from enemy hands.

Pull — Manipulate target inanimate objects using telekinesis. The range of Pull can also be upgraded.
Levitate — Pull target NPC to the player and telekinetically suspend them in the air for a brief period. The strength of this discipline can be upgraded, allowing the player to levitate all NPCs and objects around their target, and even throw them around like ragdolls. 
Nebulation - Allows the vampire to summon and command mist.

Mist Shroud — Summon a shroud of mist that surrounds the player for a short period. The shroud muffles the sound of footsteps and reduces the range at which the player can be seen. In addition, the player may fully transform into a cloud of mist to perform a choking attack on an NPC or travel through a tight space, like a ventilation fan or duct. Mist Shroud can be upgraded to increase its power as well.
Envelop — Create a stationary, swirling cloud of mist on a target that surrounds, blinds and forcefully enters the lungs of the first NPC that it touches. This discipline can be upgraded to increase its reach and area of effect. 
Players can eventually join fullblood clans down the line, each with their own disciplines and abilities for you to eventually raise your character up to. Paradox plans to detail those clans within the upcoming weeks.

      Products In This Article

Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines 2

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

2024

Purchase
More Info

