
  April Cover Revealed – Uncharted: The Lost Legacy






For nearly a decade now, we’ve experienced high stakes, adrenaline-fueled adventures from Nathan Drake’s perspective. With his story wrapped up, Naughty Dog is focusing on a fresh thief in a new standalone expansion out this year: Uncharted: The Lost Legacy. Stepping out of the shadows and into her own adventure is fan-favorite Chloe Frazer. The Lost Legacy delves into Chloe’s backstory and heritage, sending her to the mountains of India, all in the name of the highly valuable Tusk of Ganesh. The treasure could give her the fame and recognition she’s been seeking. 

However, Chloe can’t do it alone. She must make an unlikely alliance with Nadine Ross, the Drake brothers’ adversary from Uncharted 4. Chloe and Nadine are both independent self-preservationists, making their coalition challenging. Can the two put their differences aside long enough to come out on top? Together they scale statues, visit temples, drive through gunfire, and get up close and personal with a dangerous villain also after their mark. 

CLICK ON THE COVER TO SEE THE ENTIRE SPREAD, FRONT AND BACK

Outside of the PSX reveal last December, The Lost Legacy has remained shrouded. We visited Naughty Dog’s studio in Santa Monica, Calif., to get the lowdown, seeing two new areas and chatting with the team about its approach to this new adventure. Anticipate everything we’ve come to expect and love about Uncharted: big set pieces, close calls, and a roller-coaster ride of a story. This time it’s about much different thieves, though – ones who aren’t always on the side of good. What will this journey teach them about each other and themselves?

To learn more about our upcoming online coverage and get a glimpse of what we saw during our trip to Naughty Dog, check out our Uncharted: The Lost Legacy coverage trailer below. You can also watch and share on YouTube.

Sorry, this video is not available

For our April issue, Darth Clark returns for our annual poke at the video game industry in Game Infarcer. We also talk to Avalanche Software, a former Disney game-development subsidiary, about teaming up with Warner Bros. to make its studio live on. In addition, we also have hands-on previews for Mass Effect Andromeda, Prey, MLB: The Show 17, and Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony. Now that the Nintendo Switch is out in the wild, we also evaluate the console.

Print subscribers can watch for their issue to arrive in the coming weeks, but you can read the full digital issue now on PC/Mac, iOS, Android, and Google Play. You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.

Our Uncharted: The Lost Legacy cover story is only the beginning. Come back throughout the month of March to see even more exclusive features and interviews. Get to know more about Chloe and Nadine through our hub by clicking on the banner below!

