
  August Cover Revealed – Tacoma






About two years ago, a team of four made a splash on the indie scene with a game that reveled in its simplicity, Gone Home. The first-person experience tasked you with exploring a house to discover more about the people who lived there, centering on a girl named Sam coming of age and entering her first romance. Gone Home went on to achieve plenty of accolades, receiving Game Developers Choice and BAFTA awards for best debut. Now Fullbright is ready to discuss its next project, Tacoma. 
The speculative sci-fi game takes place in the year 2088, so you won't be you exploring the familiar. Instead, you board a space station that resides between the Earth and moon. You play as Amy Ferrier, who shows up for her first day at her job on the station only to find no one is in sight. You must search Tacoma to find answers about the missing crew. Your only connection is the station computer, ODIN, but even ODIN holds its own mysteries. 
We visited Fullbright's Portland studio to get hands-on with the game's first area. First-person exploration is still at the forefront of the experience, but because you're in space, you also have the ability to change perspective and search ceilings to find new paths and items. Throughout the experience, AR recordings appear, showcasing events that took place before you arrived. You'll learn about crew members' personal relationships, and also some of the struggles they encountered on the station. Fullbright has crafted an exciting vision for the future; in this world, you don't have to be a trained astronaut to travel in space, you just need to be able to afford the hefty fee. Our cover story details more of the science behind the world and Tacoma's existence, dives into some of the themes and issues the crew members face, and shows Fullbright's unique approach to tackling its second game. 
Tacoma launches in 2016, and so far has been confirmed for PC and Xbox One.

(Click image above to see full spread)
To get a glimpse into our exclusive online coverage for Tacoma, you can watch our coverage trailer below or on Youtube.
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our 10-page spread on Tacoma, this issue features plenty of analysis and previews from E3 2015. Our Hot 50 returns, and with such a great E3, you can only imagine the difficult task of narrowing the list down and awarding our top spots. Games like Fallout 4, Uncharted 4: A Thief's End, Horizon Zero Dawn, and Just Cause 3 all got people talking at the show. We also grade each platform holder's press conference, detailing the highs and lows of each. 
Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week 
or two, but you can read the issue right now if you subscribe 
digitally (available on PC/Mac, iPad,Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Throughout the month, we'll have exclusive online content on Tacoma, from video interviews to in-depth features. Click on the banner below to visit our Tacoma hub and follow our coverage as it hits.

