
  Five Fun Diversions In Horizon Zero Dawn's Open World






Horizon Zero Dawn takes you to a post-post apocalyptic world
that's just as beautiful as it is dangerous. In this unique landscape, humanity
has regressed, losing its technological advancements and struggling to survive
against mechanical beasts who have replaced them at the top of the food chain.
While you explore the main quest to discover why this happened and more about
main character Aloy, the world also offers different activities you can do to
gain experience and engage with this unique playground. 
While we visited Guerrilla Games in Amsterdam, we saw some
of the things you can do in the world. Here are five ways you can spend some of
your time, and Guerrilla says there's plenty more side events it hasn't
revealed yet.
Corruption ZonesCertain areas of the map, called Corruption Zones, are
teeming with hostile machines. If you're looking for a challenge, you can clear
these out to ease exploration and earn more experience. These house some of the
bigger fights in the game, combining a lot of different machine types to keep
you on your toes. Think Assassin's Creed and Infamous' area-control side
quests.
Hunter ChallengesHunter trials are a way for you to test your combat skills.
In the city of Meridian, you will find a hunter's lodge for elite, big game
hunters. However, you can't just walk in them; you have to prove you're worthy,
so representatives of the lodge are set up around large herds. If you complete
their tasks successfully, you gain experience and receive medals that allow you
entry. Once in, you can work up the hierarchy of the lodge. Guerrilla compared
it to a "hunter's guild."
Hunter Challenges show players various ways they can
interact with the machines using the different weapons at their disposal. For
instance, we saw a challenge that required using the ropecaster to kill three
Glinthawks (flying hawk-like machines) in three minutes for the highest medal.
This is no easy task, as tons of other machines are all over the battlefield,
making it difficult to use the ropecaster to pin down a Glinkhawk without
having another enemy impede our progress. Hunter Challenges are for those who
want to learn the ins and outs of combat and test their skills with specific
weapons. It was one of the most chaotic proving grounds that we saw.

Tribe QuestsHumanity has split into several different tribes in Horizon
Zero Dawn, and they have all learned to survive differently in a world full of
mammoth machines. Tribes are located all over the world, dealing with different
climates and terrain. Special quests are available for every tribe, so you can
discover more about them, such as their religious beliefs and how they live off
the land. Some, such as Aloy's tribe the Nora, are primarily hunters while
others are gatherers. They also all have their different views about technology
and why the world is in its current state. In addition, Guerrilla worked
extensively to make sure the tribes all have their own complex and interesting
histories with one another. Just like our own world, not everyone always gets
along – and these hostilities affect how Aloy navigates her journey. Lastly,
these quests will allow Aloy to meet new people and learn to see life from
different points of view, which is important considering she has only ever
known the Nora tribe's perspective.
Hunting/CraftingYou are free to hunt and craft as you explore the world.
During our trip, we saw an abundance of resources to gather and animals to
hunt. Doing both is essential; you need to hunt animal wildlife, such as
rabbits and boars, for some of the better gear in the game, and you have a
limited amount of arrows and healing items you can carry at once. This makes it
important to gather materials as you explore to ensure you don't run out in the
heat of battle.
You can craft on the fly by merely holding down a button to
replenish these items as long as you possess the right materials. Hunting comes
in handy for everything from improving your armor to creating a satchel that
can hold more items, which is important since Aloy has limited inventory space.
Machines are just as important to hunt, as a lot of their parts can be used for
weaponry and armor upgrades. 
Spontaneous QuestsWhile you go about on your journey, random events appear in
the world and it's up to you if you want to lend a hand. For instance, in our
demo, an injured man called out for our help and we went over to see what he
needed. This led us on a quest to find a sacred spear for his daughter that was
left to her by her late mother. For helping, we came away with a nifty upgrade
for our spear that increased its melee damage. These quests just give you more
things to pursue, while also making the world feel more alive.
This is only a few of the activities that you can do in the
world that Guerrilla was ready to talk about, but we're assured there are
plenty more. While we were at the studio, Guerrilla also spoke about more
story-oriented side quests alongside ones that were primarily combat-focused,
while others are a mix of the two. From what we saw, the world looked vast,
giving Guerrilla a lot of opportunity to fill it up with fun diversions.
For more on Horizon Zero Dawn, click on the banner below to see all our exclusive online content.

