
                                          Resident Evil Zero
                  


  Four Reasons You Should Play The Latest Remaster




Platform
PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, GameCube, PC

Publisher
Capcom

Developer
Capcom

Release
November 12, 2002

Rating
Mature

Resident Evil re-releases have become a dime a dozen with
Capcom capitalizing on a new audience of gamers, while still letting fans re-experience
their favorite games with a fresh coat of paint. After successfully remaking the first Resident Evil, Capcom has moved on to its prequel,
Resident Evil 0. This isn't the first time we've had a remake of this game; a
version for the Wii came out back in 2009, but that was merely a port. Resident Evil 0 features several enhancements to make the experience much smoother. At TGS, we went hands-on with the new remake and talked to
producer Tsukasa Takenaka to learn more about it. 
 For new players or
fans unsure about Resident Evil 0, we've broken down the finer points of the
game.
A Game Every Resident Evil Fan Should Play
If you're into the lore, Resident Evil 0 is a must-play. It
explains more in depth some of the events and characters of the first game. If
you've recently played the first Resident Evil remake, now is the perfect time
to play 0 to get more insight into the franchise. This is the origin of the
entire story and gives details on the first zombie in RE1, the mansion
incident, answering many of the "whos" and "whys" that the first game leaves
out. "You can't consider yourself a Resident Evil fan unless you've played
Resident Evil 0," Takenaka says.  
Some Great Updates
The game has gone through a visual overhaul and it shows.
This is especially noticeable in some of the enemies you face off against, as they're
much more detailed than ever before. It still keeps the same vibe as the original version, but
the graphics are much sharper and clearer. A new widescreen mode was also
added, but Resident Evil 0's system that lets you drops items anywhere, made
this a bit tricky to implement. "We've tuned every camera angle in the game by
hand, so you don't lose the important information and you're able to see where
you've put items." Takenaka says.  
In addition, updates to certain elements like the controls
were made. "We've tried to make the game comfortable for modern gamers to play,"
Takenaka says. "While they love old-school games, certain aspects of old-school
games are frustrating for the modern gamer." Takenaka shared the example of the
tank controls as something that's been improved. "People are nostalgic for the
tank controls," he explains. "But it's not necessarily the best way for
everyone to play the game, so we've updated the game with modernized controls."
It works both ways though, hardcore fans can also go all the way back to older
control schemes if they want. Feedback from the Resident Evil remake helped
Capcom make this decision to give the player a choice in how they want to play.

Experience Elements That Laid The Groundwork For Future
Entries
Resident Evil 0 has been influential on the game systems
that evolved in the series. In it, you have two main characters: Rebecca and
Billy, that are swappable at any time - a first in the series. "It wasn't
co-op, but the way that Billy and Rebecca could help each other into other
places and through puzzles that stuff was really the origin point for what came
later when we introduced two-player co-op," Takenaka explains.
Takenaka also appreciates that the game takes place in a
different setting: a train. "I worked on Resident Evil Revelations, and that
was set on a cruise ship, he says. "[Resident Evil 0] is a passenger train. This
was the first Resident Evil game not to be set in a building, but on a vehicle
and you can see that influence as well later in the series."
It's Still Tense As Hell
During my hands-on session, I started to remember how tense
this entry can get. Sure, you'll have slower moments to solve puzzles, like
finding two different statutes to balance out weight requirements to open a
door, but the tension of what's behind each closed door is always there.
Sometimes it's a slew of enemies lunging at you; others it's seeing meat
cleavers and torture chambers, knowing something bad is on the way. Sometimes
it's even a race to the clock to save one of your beloved characters from
falling to their death, while various enemies bombard you. The time pressure
constraints keep your adrenaline pumping and also make you decide whether to
run or gun. (RUN!!! Is usually the answer; don't mess with the baddies too
much). 

      Products In This Article

Resident Evil Zero

Platform:

PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, GameCube, PC

Release Date:

November 12, 2002 (GameCube), December 1, 2009 (Wii),  (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC), May 21, 2019 (Switch)

Purchase
More Info

