
  Missing In Action: The Absent Crew Of Tacoma Space Station






In Gone Home, Fullbright introduced us to a family and we
discovered more about them by searching their belongings. The studio's latest
project, Tacoma, has us learning about an entire space station's crew.

Space hasn't changed the fact that these are people who have
everyday problems while harboring their own secrets and insecurities. Being
locked on a space station also comes with its own sets of problems: How do
these people deal with the isolation? When you take a job on Tacoma, it's a
yearlong stint, so you're stuck with the same people day in, day out. "It's
like if you were housemates with people, but could never leave the house," says
Fullbright co-founder Steve Gaynor.
Tensions are bound to rise, but complicated relationships
aren't the only intriguing threads. You also find out what brought these
different characters to the space station in the first place. After all, Tacoma
isn't exactly the cream of the crop for job postings. "You're stuck on the most
remote, least cushy posting in the whole system for a year at a time, stuck in
one spot," Gaynor says. "Think of the crew in those terms of, 'Who ends up here
and why?' It's gotta be people that are competent, but they had no choice but
to take this posting." 
With that in mind, read on to discover the unique
personalities you'll encounter on Tacoma. As seen in the screens below, instead of seeing videos of people directly, you view colored representations assembled from the station's positional tracking data.

Amy Ferrier (player
character): Amy gets hired to Tacoma on short notice as its new operations
specialist. When she's not on the clock, she's considered a "Spacer" - a free
agent who maintains her own space freighter, salvaging resources from abandoned
orbital platforms that float just outside Earth's atmosphere. Amy shows up for
her first day on Tacoma, only to find no one in sight. She quickly discovers
that everything is not as it should be, and uses her experience and technical
skills to aid her in unraveling the station's mysteries. You also discover why
Amy was chosen for this job. Amy is voiced by Sarah Grayson, who interestingly enough
also lent her voice to Sam in Gone Home. 
ODIN (station
computer): ODIN, the Operational Data Interpreter Network interface,
monitors all aspects of Tacoma's daily functions. Not a full artificial
intelligence, ODIN's primary role is to provide the crew with information.
However, he also controls access to all parts of the station, and his
cooperation is critical to Amy's mission. This won't always be easy. Remember,
ODIN's a computer, and it's certainly possible he's been manipulated to
withhold certain information. ODIN is voiced by Carl Lumbly, who voiced C.M.
Porter in Minerva's Den, the BioShock 2 DLC that part of the Fullbright team
previously worked on. 
Evelyn Victoria
("E.V.") St. James (Station Administrator): As the station administrator,
E.V. basically runs the show on Tacoma, but she also has an interesting
backstory. Her family has worked for generations in the aerospace manufacturing
industry in Tacoma, Wash., but E.V. is the first of her family who's gone to
space. After becoming a seasoned pilot and mission commander, she took up her
current job on Tacoma, her hometown namesake. She ensures that the crew and
space station are running smoothly at all times. She is also romantically
involved with fellow crew member, Clive. The pair met while working on Tacoma
together. E.V. is voiced by Dawnn Lewis, who is best known as Jaleesa on A Different World and LaBarbara Conrad
on Futurama. 
Andrew Dagyab
(Botanist): As the botanist on Tacoma, Andrew cares for the plants that
regulate the station's air supply, but other responsibilities fall to him, such
as cultivating the protein supply for the crew's food and acting as station
cook. He is central to the station's function, but sometimes feels taken for
granted. Andrew's significant other, Mark, is back on Earth, which can't be
easy for him. Andrew is voiced by Randall Park, who plays Danny Chung on Veep and Louis Huang on Fresh Off The Boat.
[Up next: A medical officer with a secret addiction and a
man trying to return to his former glory...]

Clive Siddiqi (Operations
Specialist): Clive is responsible for making sure all of the little things
run smoothly on the station, from scheduling and task management to making sure
everyone's laundry gets done. Clive isn't exactly in love with his job, since
the Tacoma posting isn't the most desirable. He's used to a more elite
surrounding; he once worked as head concierge on a high-class orbital spa and
resort. Unfortunately, the resort shut down when it was acquired by a different
company. His new bosses shipped him off to Tacoma, and he's trying his best to
prove he deserves to be returned to a higher-status position. Clive is
romantically involved with E.V., who he met while working on Tacoma. T.J.
Ramini , who played Salim in Uncharted 3 and Tarin Faroush in 24, voices Clive. 
Sareh Hasmadi (Medical Officer): Sareh is responsible
for the crew's medical care, physical fitness, and ensuring the rest of the
crew has enough first aid knowledge to come through in an emergency. Due to the
stress of her position, Sareh has developed a reliance on a highly addictive
prescription sleep medication, which she keeps hidden from the rest of the
crew. Karen Dryer, who voiced Sheva in Resident Evil 5 and Elena in the Street
Fighter series, plays Sareh.
Roberta "Bert"
Williams (Mechanical Engineer): Bert is responsible for making sure all the
major systems of the station keep running efficiently, and maintain the crew's
safety. Bert was posted to Tacoma along with her wife, Natali, the station's
computer engineer. She has a big, outgoing personality, which functions to
cover up her own insecurities. Abigail Marlow is the voice of Bert; she
previously played Lithariel in Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor. 
Natali "Nat" Kuroshenko
(Computer Engineer): As a teen, Nat gained some notoriety for hacking the
public augmented-reality system at Disney World, but has since turned her
abilities to legitimate network security. She's spent a number of years working
at higher-profile facilities, but has followed her wife, Bert, to Tacoma
station. Compared to what she's capable of, Nat doesn't find the work on Tacoma
to be very challenging, and channels her energy into more recreational uses of
augmented reality. Natasha Loring, best known as Sera Flowers from Telltale's
Game of Thrones, voices Natali.  
Visit our online hub below to see our exclusive Tacoma online coverage for the month.

