
  October Cover Revealed – Horizon Zero Dawn






Guerrilla Games surprised and intrigued many when it debuted its new franchise, Horizon Zero Dawn, at E3 in 2015. The Dutch developer is best known for its work on the Killzone franchise, but after toiling on that series for over a decade, decided it was time to change things up. Horizon Zero Dawn is an open-world action/RPG starring a fierce redhead named Aloy. She must survive in a post-post apocalyptic world where machines have taken over and humans are living in a primitive state at the bottom of the food chain. We traveled to Guerrilla Games’ studio in Amsterdam to find out how Horizon Zero Dawn became a reality and why the team wanted to try a new genre. 
Throughout our trip, we discovered more about Aloy and where her journey takes her. As a resourceful hunter with a bow, Aloy has always been fascinated with technology and the ancient relics from the past. Growing up as an outcast with no parents, she searches for the truth about her origins, but she also finds more than she bargained for about the dangers of the world and why it has been changing. We got up and close and personal with new machines such as the laser-blazing, hyena-like Scrapper. We also went hands-on with a new, early portion in the game, where we encountered a side quest and saw more of the game’s machine ecosystem in action. Animals travel in packs, and often come to each other’s aid, meaning victory rarely comes easy. Our cover story is packed with information about the tools that Aloy has at her disposal to stand a chance against these mammoth beasts, the lore of this strange backdrop, and what types of side content is available in this vast open world. 
Horizon Zero Dawn launches on February 28 for PlayStation 4. 

CLICK ON THE COVER TO SEE THE ENTIRE SPREAD, FRONT AND BACK
To learn more about our upcoming online coverage and see some of what we experienced on our visit to Guerrilla Games, check out our Horizon Zero Dawn coverage trailer below or watch and share it on YouTube. 
Sorry, this video is not available
In addition to our cover story, we interview Pokémon Go mastermind John Hanke, explore how video games are being used in long-distance relationships, look at the survival game trend and where it’s headed, and have in-depth, hands-on impressions on Dead Rising 4. We also share our thoughts on this past Gamescom with hands-on impressions of Metal Gear Survive, Resident Evil 7 Biohazard, and Watch Dogs 2. 
Can’t wait to get the full story on Horizon Zero Dawn? Print subscribers should see their issues arriving in the next week, but if you subscribe digitally, the issue is now live (available on PC/Mac, iPad,  Android, and Google Play). You can also get the latest issue through third-party apps on Nook, Kindle, and Zinio starting tomorrow. To switch your print subscription to digital, click here, or to create a new subscription to the digital edition, click here.
Our exclusive online coverage on Horizon Zero Dawn will hit all throughout September, so keep checking the hub below for interviews with the creators, more hands-on impressions, and to learn about Aloy and the lore of this machine-driven world. 

