
  Romance In Dragon Age






Romance is only a shred of BioWare's sprawling storylines,
but to some fans, it's the focus of their journey (whether BioWare intends for
it to be or not). 
Picking your one-and-only isn't easy with all the eclectic
personalities in the Dragon Age universe, especially if your beau has opposing
views. How does BioWare make these romances so appealing? Are they planning
changes in Dragon Age: Inquisition? Find out why selecting romance candidates
are never cut-and-dried, and how BioWare attempts to bring out a different side
to a character during courtship.
Picking The
Woo-Worthy

Love isn't decided right out of the gate. BioWare builds its
characters before even thinking about the romantic content. "If you build the
temptress or something like that, you're going to build a cliché," says
creative director Mike Laidlaw. "You need to make sure they're a real character
and a person first." Once BioWare forms the history and motivations, the
writers sit down to address how many romance options they need, and begin
dissecting their characters.
"We'll talk about what the romantic arc is and what that
character's story can tell as a romance," says lead writer David Gaider.
"Because there's more than insert coin, get sex, right? There are different
types of romantic tales and romantic archetypes. I know people can water it
down and say they're all the same, [but] no they're not, there's a different
story that can be told." This can be seen with polar opposites Morrigan and
Leliana in Dragon Age: Origins. Leliana provides a traditional romance arch;
you had to build up her trust and then she starts addressing you lovingly.
Morrigan's is more about reading between the lines and not giving up on getting
into her heart. "You could almost sleep with Morrigan immediately — before you
even got to know her at all — and that was part of her thing," Gaider says.
"She expected that and right afterwards it'd be over, but you could then scratch
beneath the surface and break through her armor."
Giving players a variety of romance arcs is something the
writers address by making sure they have the right people in place for the
role. "When we're talking about what these romantic arcs are going to be, we're
trying to figure out if we're going to provide choice for a player, what
[styles of romance are you choosing between], and seeing what we have," Gaider
says. "If we have no variety, then maybe we have to move back more towards
content." Laidlaw adds, "Or do we need to take another character and say, 'You
know what? Guess what? You're getting in the big leagues.'"

But characters aren't necessarily axed from the paramour
role if they're not working. Sometimes, BioWare has to look at a character in a
different light to cast them as a unique and viable romance contender. "Trying
to figure out what the romance is...sometimes it requires you to sit back and
think about the character a slightly different way because you've always
thought about them [one way]," Laidlaw says. This is exactly what Gaider had to
do when he wrote Morrigan's romance. "Morrigan initially was not supposed to be
a romance," Gaider says. When the decision came to put her in that role, Gaider
had to think long and hard about the character he created. "I had to change the
way I thought about her," he says. "[I saw her] as her having built up this
sort of armor around herself — that there was a different person underneath.
One that she purposely had to squelch because she thought that [it] was weak,
because that was what she had been taught. Suddenly when I thought about that,
it was, 'Oh, that's an interesting place to go.'"
BioWare also has to make sure they've looked at a
relationship from every angle. This forces the team to look beyond just the
premise and into what implications it presents. "Are there issues of feminism
or other problematic elements? What are we saying about this character we
aren't intending to?" Gaider says. "We have to think about all those issues
first and try to distill it down into a set of stories that we want to tell and
feel good about telling."
Up next: Romance challenges and changes for Inquisition...

Meeting BioWare
Halfway

BioWare has to scale back on the time spent on the romances
in the grander scheme of the project. "The follower characters in general are enormously
complex," Gaider says. "They're a massive investment in terms of gameplay and
storytelling." 
"We try to push ourselves," Laidlaw adds. "We try to do
things we haven't done before. We try to explore characters we haven't done
before, but there comes a point in which you can afford only so much crazy."
The team often has to reel themselves in, and they're well
aware of criticisms about fans wanting more detailed, realistic romances.
Still, these aren't the main focus of the game. "We could make relationships
more detailed," Gaider says. "We could add a lot a more nuance and stuff, but
really it's a question of, 'How much content do we want to put for something
that's essentially optional?' It's not a romantic adventure. It would be cool
to do, but in this case, it's something the player pursues because they're
interested, and it's not really the point of the game." 
Senior writer Luke Kristjanson agrees. "The player has to
meet us halfway," Kristjanson says. "If they're going on an adventure with a love
interest in the story, again that entire adventure is part of their romance,
whether we label it romance or not."
Another tough question the team tackles is integrating this
content seamlessly into the plot to where the game still feels cohesive. One answer
is to make them grow naturally. "Our romances tend to grow out of a friendship,
out of necessity, almost more than anything else," Gaider says. "We want a
player who isn't romancing a character to still get a sense of who that
character is and feel like they have a relationship. You're going to walk the
same path, but then at some point, you're going to grow into the romance, and
that's going to be separate content."
BioWare is looking for more answers to balance the romance
extras with Dragon Age's core experience. "We still want the heart of that
character to be available to anyone," Gaider says. "So for us, it's, 'How do we
make that seamless?' And if it's seamless, the player isn't going to be able to
distinguish between those two paths necessarily." That's the biggest challenge
BioWare is tackling: Finding a way to make the romance content feel unique
while still allowing players to get to know a character even if they aren't
wooing them. The new seamless approach the team is working toward for Inquisition
may be just what the franchise needs.
Romance In
Inquisition

What it comes down to is BioWare deciding on the story they
want to tell with the romances and making sure they don't double up on any
similar narratives. The team is constantly asking itself what territories have
remained uncharted. "We're doing a few of those things in Inquisition, trying
to tell some romances of a style that we have not done previously," Gaider
says.
Criticisms regarding stock romances and approval ratings
dictating relationships have been looming. Fans should be happy to know that
approval ratings are playing a different role this time around. "Previously, we
had a lot of the follower content gated by your approval rating. Whereas what
we're doing now, we're having a lot more of your content event-driven," Gaider
says. "The approval you're at informs the nature of the conversation."
That means you shouldn't have to agree on everything to
befriend or romance another character. "They're like, 'Yes, you've chosen a
thing that I disagree with, but we're good friends,'" Laidlaw says. "So that's
going to change the color and tone of [those interactions], so [they're] more
nuanced. I think that's going to take them beyond what's been done in the
past." 
However, that's hardly the only portion that's changing.
BioWare is striving to make the whole cast more interactive and aware of what's
going around them, including the choices you make as Inquisitor. This allows
for realistic reactions to what's happening at a given moment, whether it's in
relation to the mages, Templars, Chantry, or a bigger threat. 
"Your interactions aren't just, 'Hello, I'm here by my tent
waiting for you,' but instead something that feels like an outgrowth of all
your adventures together and the kind of things that you've been doing,"
Laidlaw says. "In my ideal scenario, your interaction with the character isn't
just about having interacted with them; it's about your interaction with them
in relation to the whole game that you've chosen to play. So if you make really
sweeping decisions in other parts of the game, that may actually change the
nature of those interactions."
BioWare isn't elaborating any further on the romance front
for now, but it appears it is considering feedback and trying to make it better
mesh with the storyline. For now, we'll just have to wonder who is taking on
the role of our Inquisitor's number-one squeeze, as BioWare has not announced
any of the characters that can be romanced yet.

