
  Uncharted: The Lost Legacy Exclusive Concept Art Gallery






We’re continuing our exclusive online coverage of our recent cover story, Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, with a concept art gallery. Exhibiting Naughty Dog’s vision for its standalone DLC due out this year, this gallery shines the spotlight on the environments Chloe Frazer and Nadine Ross will visit. The two team up together to get their hands on the highly valuable Tusk of Ganesh, hoping to change their status in the treasure-hunting business. The trip will take them across the mountains of India, where they visit temples, scale statues, and drive through its terrain. Expect plenty of chaotic and dangerous moments, but also quieter, more reflective times.  
Note: Click on photos for full size.

The expansion focuses on different areas within India, a place the series has never visited. The new locale offered the artists a new canvas, allowing them to add more color than Nathan Drake's recent excursions and experiment with different backdrops. For instance, in the PSX demo, we saw a war-torn city, while these photos feature more serene, rural landscapes. “What we are doing with [The Lost Legacy] is going back to some of those moments in Uncharted 1 and 2 of awe with exploration in terms of the environments and the temples, and that mystical sort of feeling you would get when you explored those places, like feeling small in a space,” says art director Tate Mosesian.
Sorry, this video is not available

The game takes place in the Western Ghats, a mountain range parallel to the western coast of the Indian peninsula known for its beautiful terrain and biological diversity. Throughout the story, Chloe recalls her heritage, as her dad, an archaeologist, passed down stories about India and its history to her. "It gets a little more personal with Chloe than we’ve ever gone, tying the culture and stories of the Hindu gods, even the story of the Hoysala Empire and the kings that ruled there,” says creative director Shaun Escayg. 

The Hoysala Empire is known for its development of art, religion, and architecture in southern India. Its legacy remains in intricate temple design; hundreds of them still survive today. "In my opinion, the temples outshadow even Egyptian architecture in just their complexity of detail, and beauty," Mosesian says. "It's amazing." Expect plenty of breathtaking structures as we showcased above.
For more on Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, you can check out our hub of exclusive content below, which includes developer interviews and more detailed info on what you can expect. 

