
  Halo Infinite: New Multiplayer Update Gives Players Increased XP In First Six Matches






            For many of us at Game Informer, Halo Infinite's free-to-play multiplayer is a blast that feels nostalgic and refreshingly new at the same time. However, a point of contention (one that's also been shared by the wider Halo community) is the monotonous grind of accumulating XP points. Infinite's progression system leaves a lot to be desired, and leveling tends to be a painful slog. Initially, 343 Industries implemented an update to give players longer durations for XP boosts (among other features). Today's new update goes a step further and increases XP payouts for the first six matches of each day. 

After seeing how XP was earned with those changes, we noticed that players were starting their sessions with slower payouts than we'd like. To address this, we will be increasing the XP payout for the first 6 matches of each day. An outline of this update can be found below:
— John Junyszek (@Unyshek) November 30, 2021

343 community manager John Junyszek took to Twitter (see above) to talk about how the new changes were in direct response to previous multiplayer progression updates:

"When we made our initial change to progression, which added Daily "Play 1 Game" Challenges, updated Weekly Challenges, and doubled the duration of 2XP Boosts, we promised that we'd monitor the data and make additional changes if needed. Now, it's time to follow up on that. After seeing how XP was earned with those changes, we noticed that players were starting their sessions with slower payouts than we'd like. To address this, we will be increasing the XP payout for the first 6 matches of each day."

This comes a day after 343's head of design, Jerry Hook, noted his frustrations with Infinite's progression and promised that the dev team would prioritize a fix. The XP points that correlate with each match are as follows:

1st Game = 300XP
2nd Game = 200XP
3rd Game = 200XP
4th Game = 100XP
5th Game = 100XP
6th Game = 100XP
7th+ Game = 50XP

Junyszek concluded the thread by stating that the new update is a quick response based on player feedback and that more substantial changes are on the way but will take more time to configure. 

So, there you have it, Spartans. Halo Infinite's singleplayer story (coop is still in the works) launches on December 8 for Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, and PC. To prepare for the Master Chief's upcoming journey, watch our exclusive interview about What You Need To Know About Halo Infinite's Campaign. 

            .

Jason Guisao
Associate Editor
Jay is a JRPG enthusiast, having clocked in thousands of hours in franchises like Final Fantasy and Monster Hunter. His latest obsession, however, is Apex Legends, a game he’s been studying and analyzing since its release.

Email
Twitter

      Products In This Article

Halo Infinite

Platform:

Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Release Date:

December 8, 2021

Purchase
More Info

