
  Lollipop Chainsaw Remake Will Be ‘As Close As Possible To A Remaster’ 






            Suda51 and his development studio, Grasshopper Manufacture, are the zany minds behind cult classic hits like The Silver Case, Killer 7, No More Heroes, and Lollipop Chainsaw. The hack-and-slash zombie game, Lollipop Chainsaw, might have received lukewarm reviews, but a remake is still on the way. Dragami Games president Yoshimi Yasuda took to Twitter today to let avid fans know it'll "be as close as possible to a remaster." You can check out his post below.

ロリポップチェーンソーリメイクに対し沢山のファンよりご質問を頂戴しましたのでお答えします…!!!
Many fans have asked questions about Lollipop Chainsaw Remake, so I will answer them.#ロリポップチェーンソー#lollipopchainsaw #ドラガミゲームス#dragamigames pic.twitter.com/V6iQG8mVDx
— 安田善巳 (@yasudaD5) July 12, 2022

In his statement, Yasuda spoke about the primary goal of the remake and the incoming changes:

"The primary goal of the Lollipop Chainsaw Remake project is to make it so that players who wish to play Lollipop Chainsaw can do so easily, not to make a new Lollipop Chainsaw game…we were unfortunately unable to include 16 of the licensed songs, which were a great part of the original game's feel, and so we are instead aiming for a remake that is as close as possible to a remaster. Additionally, we do not intend to change the aesthetics of the game."

The original Lollipop Chainsaw was released in 2012 and was about high school cheerleader Juliet and her journey to survival amid a zombie apocalypse in California. For those of you that never played the game, you're right to assume that Juliet donned a flesh-shredding chainsaw. Suda51 and James Gunn (The Suicide Squad and Guardians of the Galaxy) collaborated on the gory, blood-pumping adventure. Joe Juba reviewed Lollipop Chainsaw and concluded his review by saying:

"After finishing Lollipop Chainsaw, I was left with the same feeling I had after playing other titles from creative director Suda 51. Like Killer 7 and No More Heroes, the premise is exciting and imaginative, but the gameplay execution has too many holes to embrace completely. However, also like those previous games, I'm glad I played Lollipop Chainsaw."

Are you excited to play the remake? What do you think of the statement? Let us know in the comments below. 

      Products In This Article

Lollipop Chainsaw

Platform:

PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

Release Date:

June 12, 2012

Purchase
More Info

