
  Monster Hunter Stories 2 Gets A New Story Trailer






            Monster Hunter Rise has been taking the world by storm, but a narrative-focused title is still slated for a summer release. And despite flying under the radar, Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin chronicles the journey of a hero, his crew of loyal companions, and their relationship with the legendary Rathalos (a flying wyvern that has solidified itself as the mascot of the Monster Hunter series). 

In the new trailer, a plethora of mysterious characters fill the screen, various monsters skulk the wastelands, and the nefarious Nergigante makes his appearance once again. Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin is only the second game in the franchise to come to PC. The Deluxe Edition comes with a ton of cosmetic and collectible content, which you can see by clicking on the link. 

Additionally, a set of Monster Hunter Stories 2-inspired Amiibos will be available. You can also receive an in-game clothing set by linking your Monster Hunter Rise save file with Wings of Ruin. Unfortunately, I wasn’t impressed with Rise’s gameplay loop and central plot:

Beyond mounting monsters and using the wirebug to wall-run in spectacular fashion, not much else distinguishes Monster Hunter Rise from the installments that came before. It has enough endgame content to keep you occupied long after the credits roll (if you don’t mind copious amounts of grinding) and multiplayer is still the optimal way to play, but the excitement of my early hunts waned before long. Monster Hunter Rise is far from being the next definitive chapter in the series. Nevertheless, if you’re looking for a polished-but-conventional adventure with a few small-scale nuances, then you’ll be right at home in Kamura Village.

Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin will take a different approach to its gameplay. The classic Monster Hunter loop of sprinting through lush biomes to fell gargantuan creatures will be absent. Wings of Ruin launches for Switch and PC on July 9

      Products In This Article

Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings Of Ruin

Platform:

Switch, PC

Release Date:

July 9, 2021

Purchase
More Info

