
  This Pricey Cyberpunk 2077 Watch Uses Blockchain Technology To Prevent Counterfeiting






            Cyberpunk 2077 might not be at the forefront of games news like it was almost a year ago, but it’s still making waves as players await 2022’s next-gen overhaul and expansion content. CD Projekt Red’s futuristic adventure was even nominated in the Best RPG category at this year’s Game Awards show. So, what’s next? More merch, of course. CDPRgear and Blonie Watches have teamed up to bring a stunning (and very expensive) watch to Cyberpunk fans everywhere. In addition to a bevy of other cutting-edge features that I’ll elaborate on below, the pricey accessory uses blockchain technology to prevent counterfeiting. 

#CDPRgear and @Blonie_Watches proudly present the T-2077 — a limited edition wristwatch born from a love for the craft and the dystopian setting of #Cyberpunk2077. Even the odds and make sure time’s always on your side ⌚

Pre-order yours today at https://t.co/PiyijbkPNC pic.twitter.com/a830TS3WjV
— CD PROJEKT RED (@CDPROJEKTRED) December 1, 2021

So, what exactly comes with your $500 purchase of the T-2077 (seen above)? Check out these specifications from the official CDPRgear website:

Case — Pure Grade 2 Titanium
Mechanism — quartz with a digital LED-type display (yellow)
Glass — darkened mineral, with additional sapphire coating
Bracelet — Pure Grade 2 Titanium with butterfly clasp (you are freely able to swap the bracelet with a strap of your own)
Water Resistance — Up to 5 atmospheres
Battery — Model CR2032; lithium manganese dioxide/Organic Electrolyte; 3V, 220mAh
Display Format — 12 hour and 24-hour options
Sizes — Adjustable in three sizes; comes with supplemental links (professional service recommended)
Warranty — 2 years

The watch is also set for an estimated June 2022 release. If you’re interested and have the Night City eurodollars to spend, head here to select a bracelet size and order the luxury watch. 

The included blockchain tech from the specialist firm, Arianee, “provides the T-2077 owner with digital certification of authenticity, effectively a digital passport for their watch, mitigating the risk of counterfeiting. Should the owner wish to transfer ownership they can do so easily using the Arianne app.”

If you’re an avid merch/accessory collector, you might also want to nab a Ludens Mask from Death Stranding or enter the Swarovski sweepstakes for a crystal version of the Master Chief’s helmet and energy sword. 

      Products In This Article

Cyberpunk 2077

Platform:

PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC

Release Date:

December 10, 2020 (PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Stadia, PC), February 15, 2022 (PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S)

Purchase
More Info

